"GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X
Trending:
One of the haunting realities of the COVID-19 pandemic is that people are suffering and dying alone in intensive-care units. They might need ventilators or other machines to keep them alive, and they have no loved ones holding their hands, offering love and support and helping to convey their wishes to doctors.
Unfortunately, as a 2017 Kaiser Family Foundation/The Economist survey found, most people have not set down their wishes for such scenarios in documents known as advance directives. And this is adding to the uncertainty in emergency rooms overwhelmed by COVID-19 patients, say experts in geriatrics and palliative care.
Frontline providers are “desperate” for any information so they make sure patients’ care aligns with what they would want, said Rebecca Sudore, a geriatrician and professor of medicine at UC San Francisco.
“Any advanced care planning done now, even just naming a medical decision maker, can save the person, their family and friends and any clinicians so much concern and heartache later on,” said Sudore, who founded UCSF’s Prepare for Your Care website, where people can find advance directives for each state and videos on how to to begin planning.
If patients arrive in the E.R. struggling for breath, they may not be able to speak for themselves. Doctors will do what they can to save a life — including intubating first and asking questions later, said Margaret Campbell, a professor of nursing at Wayne State University in Detroit.
Right now, most visitors are barred from hospitals, so doctors can’t easily consult with family about what the patient would want. They must have those conversations about difficult next steps by phone or videoconferencing, if at all.
Sudore argues that getting an advanced directive, or even talking to loved ones and doctors about health care choices, is an important community service.
“In the Bay Area, people really are doing their part to help reduce the spread of the virus,” Sudore said. “We’re washing our hands and isolating in our homes. People are wondering, what else can I do? The other thing they can do is some medical planning.”
In a time when the pandemic has taken away people’s control over many aspects of their lives, “advanced care planning is one of the things under their control right now,” said Hillary Lum, a geriatrician and professor the University of Colorado.
Hospitals around the Bay Area, including UCSF, Kaiser hospitals and Stanford Medical Center, have long encouraged patients to talk to their doctors about end-of-life-care wishes, especially if they have serious health problems. Ideally, these talks should happen long before a person lands in the emergency room.
“We’ve always had discussions about the escalation to intensive care, but now people have to talk about their preferences around coronavirus,” said Marina Martin, a geriatrician at Stanford Health Care. “We’ve never had to talk about people being alone while dying. We don’t want to scare people, because most people will survive if they get coronavirus, but we just want their voices to be heard.”
It’s true that most people only suffer mild symptoms from coronavirus and recover without going anywhere near a hospital. Those who become critically ill tend to be older or have other health problems. But that doesn’t mean that healthy people in their 20s, 30s or 40s are immune to a disease that’s known to turn critical very quickly.
“From what I’m hearing from the front lines, this particular virus is nasty,” said Jennifer Ballentine, executive director of the CSU Shiley Institute for Palliative Care in San Marcos. “Those who develop severe cases often end up with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and this is the kind of ARDS they have never seen before.
This could mean a COVID-19 patient is left with a difficult decision: Would you prefer palliative care or life-support? Palliative care for coronavirus typically involves an oxygen mask, morphine and anti-anxiety medication to ease breathing.
Life support, on the other hand, can include a feeding tube, dialysis, transfusions and mechanical ventilation, a grueling experience that requires heavy sedation. Doctors and public health officials in New York City, China and the U.K. have begun to find that ventilators are not saving the majority of COVID-19 patients, while some doctors worry they may harm patients more than benefit them, the Associated Press reported.
Doctors also are finding that COVID-19 patients who survive time in an ICU may still face a difficult recovery that could take weeks or months. Like other ICU patients, they also may be left with physical, emotional or cognitive problems that could affect quality of life. “There are so many unknowns and variables, especially with this disease, Ballentine added.
For critically ill patients, doctors tend to focus on treatments, Sudore said. But she said, “The important question people can ask is what’s important to them. The can ask their doctors what would my life look on a certain treatment and after a certain treatment. Is that something that would align with their goals?”
A Kaiser Permanente spokesperson added that planning “can be fluid” and wishes can change as one’s health changes.
Healthcare workers, who face an increased risk of getting COVID-19, have been especially motivated to document their end-of-life wishes. Many have taken to Twitter to post photos of themselves with their advance directives.
Nadia Sheriff, a pediatrician in private practice in Orinda, admits it was a little unsettling to confront her own mortality while talking to her husband about medical care she’d want if she contracted coronavirus. But the mother of two felt the conversation was necessary because she expects to be called in to work at UCSF Benioff Children’s Hospital in Oakland if California hospitals see a surge in coronavirus patients.
“I didn’t expect to have this conversation in my late 30s,” Sheriff said.
For COVID-19 patients who won’t recover, hospice care is an option and could allow people to avoid going to the hospital. Hospice workers also can arrange for patients to leave the hospital and die at home, said Cindy Hatton, CEO of Hospice of the East Bay.
One goal of hospice is to help COVID-19 patients stay in contact with loved ones as much as possible, whether it’s by phone or FaceTime if they’re in a nursing home or hospital, or by having two family members with them at home, while staying at a safe distance. “We are dealing with maintaining a connected culture with physical distancing,” Hatton said.
How to get prepared
A coalition of national and state health care leaders Tuesday launched a public health campaign to encourage people to talk to their loved ones about their health care wishes in case they need to go to the hospital. The effort is led by UC-San Francisco, whose Prepare for Your Care program, provides free online resources to help people get prepared, including if the want to document,their wishes in advance directives. Basic steps people can take to get prepared include:
Have a hospital “Go Bag”: If someone needs to immediately go to the hospital for any reason, they should take a bag that includes: A written list of medications, or pill bottles and inhaler boxes; contact information for a medical decision maker; cellphone and cellphone charger; a copy of your advance directive; plans for taking care of pets and bills; and glasses, hearing aids, dentures and other personal supplies.
Choose of medical decision maker: Also known as a health care proxy, this person can let doctors know what care you would want. Include that person’s name in your advance directive.
Talk to loved ones about your wishes: Think about what is most important in your life and how you want your medical care to align with with your wishes.
Get Morning Report and other email newsletters
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you accept our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy.
OK"
