"By Luke May For Mailonline
Published:  16:03 EDT, 27 March 2020   |  Updated:  17:32 EDT, 27 March 2020


View  comments

The glorious spring weather may have many of us wishing we could go for a nice day out.
But with the lockdown keeping most of Britain indoors, Chester Zoo has decided to bring the grand day out to our screens, offering a virtual tour of its animals, including penguins, elephants and tigers.
The zoo conducted a tour of the 'eerily quiet' grounds using Facebook, featuring animals including red pandas, giraffes, sloths, and butterflies.
Chester Zoo announced on Saturday March 21 that it would be temporarily closing following Government advice on social distancing, though its staff would still be coming in to care for the animals.
Announcing its tour on Facebook, the zoo wrote: ""As you can't come to the zoo right now, we'll bring the zoo to you!""
Mike Jordan, animal and plant director at the zoo, said: 'It's eerily quiet because although everything is built with our animals in mind, it's also built with visitors in mind.
Chester Zoo would normally have around 8,000 visitors on a sunny spring day, but with Britain in lockdown it's decided let the public have a day at the zoo in the comfort of their own homes
Zookeepers filmed animals live at the 125-acre zoo. Chester Zoo in Cheshire is one the UK's largest animal sanctuaries and has elephants, sun bears, red pandas, penguins, sloths and other animals and insects
Fans of Chester Zoo were able to see their favourite animals including a sun bear, left, and red pandas, right, via Facebook Live on Friday
'On a busy day we'll have 15,000 people or more... Today's a gorgeous spring day - it's the sort of day when we would have had 7,000 to 8,000 people in the zoo and it would be a bustling place.
'It's very unusual to be completely devoid of people but also we're deliberately not really interacting among ourselves... it's quite an isolating experience, what would normally be a very social experience in a zoo.""
Mr Jordan explained that the zoo is currently running on two-thirds to three-quarters of the normal amount of staff due to social distancing guidelines.
Share what you think
No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your thoughts,
      or debate this issue live on our message boards.
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.

Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.
You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group"
