"By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia
Published:  08:02 EDT, 28 March 2020   |  Updated:  08:40 EDT, 28 March 2020

5
View  comments

A tight-knit community has thrown together a makeshift birthday party for two little boys who were unable to celebrate because of coronavirus restrictions.
Perth mum Jessica Peek had to cancel Louie's third birthday party on Saturday because of social isolation measures in place across Australia
Perth mum Jessica Peek had to cancel her son Louie's third birthday party on Saturday because of social isolation measures in place across Australia.
Instead, the young mother reached out to the Palmyra community on Facebook who arranged for a 100 car parade down their street in celebration.
The convoy then carried on to wish another child happy birthday, eight-year-old Alby.
The drive-by-birthday party featured a local Melville Council garbage truck, Western Power utility trucks and dogs wearing party hats.
Ms Peek told Daily Mail Australia her son was devastated when she had to cancel his party.
'He's not quite at that point where he understands but he was upset that he wasn't able to see his Nanny, Pa, Nanna and Poppy - the four people in his life who aren't his immediate family,' she said.
'I started inviting people to drive by my house to beep their horns and play Louie's favourite song for his birthday so no one would break any social distancing rules, everyone would be really safe and so he would have a really happy birthday.'
Young mother Jessica Peek reached out to the Palmyra community on Facebook who arranged for a 100 car parade down their street in celebration
'It was hilarious, the first car was a rubbish truck through the Melville council, and he was STOKED with that and then the cars just kept coming and kept coming and I think he got a bit overwhelmed. But for the most part he loved it and the dogs coming past in party hats were a real highlight.'
The mum had to cancel a small party she had organised at Point Walter because of the federal government's social distancing measures.
But she said turnout and efforts of the community completely surpassed her expectations.
'People went into so much effort. There were balloons, streamers, megaphones, people had placards and signs, someone even painted their car,' she said.
A convoy of 100 cars drove past to celebrate Louie's third birthday party
Cars drove along blasting 'Black Betty'- her son's favourite song, and the parade featured his two favourite things- trucks and dogs.
Cars drove along blasting 'Black Betty'- her son's favourite song, and the parade featured his two favourite things- trucks and dogs.
About 100 cars turned about, with an estimated 300 people in total.
Ms Peek said it was mostly locals but there were also people who drove from surrounding suburbs of Canning Vale, Spearwood and Leeming.
'It was awesome, it was absolutely awesome knowing there was people out there during these times who will go out of their way to make a birthday special for a three year old- some we don't even know, it's just heartwarming, it's absolutely amazing,' she said.
The drive-by-birthday party featured a local Melville Council garbage truck, Western Power utility trucks and dogs wearing party hats
A car with a birthday message drives by as part of a 100 drive-by birthday party in Perth
Western Power shared a video of the parade on their Facebook page, describing the event as a reflection of strong community spirit during tough times.
'Great job Palmyra and thanks for reminding us all that even though we are doing our best to physically isolate, we are all still one big community,' the post read.
'Surely now this will be a birthday to remember for all the right reasons.'
The parade continued on after wishing Louie a happy birthday to another young boy Alby, who had also cancelled his party on Saturday.
The party was inspired after a video of an isolation parade went viral of a little girl in Ireland Katie Regan.
Share what you think
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.

Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.
You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group"
