"Most Searched
28 Mar 2020 20:37 GMT Coronavirus pandemic, Aviation, Business & Economy, Airlines
World leaders are being forced to take drastic, emergency measures to confront the worsening coronavirus crisis.
They are meant to keep people alive, but are killing the global economy. And few industries have been hit as hard as airlines.
The International Air Transport Association says the industry stands to lose more than $250bn in revenue this year, and that is assuming things recover in three months.
Singapore, Emirates and Turkish Airlines are just a few of the big names to halt almost all their operations.
An estimated 8,500 aircraft are sitting in storage around the world.
Governments are promising bailouts to keep the industry afloat.
But will that be enough?
Presenter: Peter Dobbie
Guests:
Alex Macheras - Editor of AviationAnalyst.co.uk
Anil Padhra - Head of aviation at the University of West London
Brendan Sobie - Founder of Sobie Aviation and former chief analyst at the Centre for Aviation
Source: Al Jazeera News
Commenting has been disabled. To find out more, click      
      here.
A survivor of schools that took Indigenous children from their families shares her story of abuse, neglect and healing.
Canada, Indigenous rights, Child rights
Kenya banned FGM in 2011, but Europeans still bring their daughters to underground clinics there to be cut.
Human Rights, Health, Child rights
You must forget all you thought you knew about grief when the landscape of your life has been demolished.
Family, United States, Health
It is a bitter coincidence that the taxi my dad once drove to deliver blood would one day be covered in his own.
United States, Family, Crime
Italy confirms 889 new coronavirus deaths, raising coronavirus fatality toll to 10,023.
Coronavirus pandemic, US & Canada, Europe
Prohibitively high costs for undocumented people leave some migrant workers fearing for their lives.
Lebanon, Coronavirus pandemic, Middle East, Health
We explore life under lockdown as Beijing employs increasingly
stringent measures to contain the coronavirus epidemic.
Coronavirus pandemic, China, Health
A Viking enthusiast confronts a neo-Nazi leader for misappropriating Viking symbols for white supremacist propaganda.
Sweden, The Far Right, Racism
The lack of a national paid family and medical leave policy has consequences for millions of workers in the US.
United States, Health, Coronavirus pandemic
101 East examines why more people are withdrawing from society in Japan.
Japan, Asia Pacific, Arts & Culture

© 2020 Al Jazeera Media Network
© 2020 Al Jazeera Media Network
"
