"
By Amy Graff, SFGATE
Face masks will be required in public for Sonoma County residents starting April 17.
Face masks will be required in public for Sonoma County residents starting April 17.
Caption
Close
Face masks will be required in public for Sonoma County residents starting April 17.
Face masks will be required in public for Sonoma County residents starting April 17.
Coronavirus cases continue to climb in California but at a less steady rate — and this slight slowdown is happening as more testing becomes available. For nearly the past two weeks, the state has reported more than 1,000 cases a day. But on Sunday and Monday the number of new cases fell below 1,000, according to the East Bay Times.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom is expected to announce a plan at his noon press conference today that will eventually allow the state to lift its shelter-in-place order.
The University of Washington model adjusted its California forecast to project a peak in hospitalizations on April 13. The model predicts the state will see its peak death toll on April 19.
In the Bay Area, San Mateo County is thinning out the inmate population in its correctional facilities to allow for better social distancing and prevent an outbreak of COVID-19. The county is releasing 132 inmates from jails under a new bail rule, ""setting bail to $0 for misdemeanors and most nonviolent felonies,"" according to the Mercury News.
Sonoma County announced Monday night that residents now must wear face masks in public. The order reads, ""All persons shall wear facial coverings before they enter any indoor facility besides their residence, any enclosed open space, or while outdoors when the person is unable to maintain a six-foot distance from another person at all times. This Order shall become effective at 12:01 a.m. on Friday, April 17, 2020.""
ALAMEDA COUNTY: 886 confirmed cases, 23 deaths
For more information on Alameda County cases, visit the public health department website.
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY: 552 confirmed cases, 11 deaths
For more information on Contra Costa County cases, visit the public health department website.
LAKE COUNTY: 4 confirmed cases
For information on Lake County and coronavirus, visit the public health department website.
MARIN COUNTY: 170 confirmed cases, 10 deaths
Fore more information on Marin County cases, visit the public health department website.
MONTEREY COUNTY: 87 confirmed cases, 3 deaths
For more information on Monterey County cases, visit the public health department website.
NAPA COUNTY: 34 cases, 2 deaths
For more information on Napa County cases, visit the public health department website.
SAN BENITO COUNTY: 38 confirmed cases, 2 deaths
For more information on San Benito County cases, visit the public health department website.
SAN FRANCISCO COUNTY: 957 confirmed cases, 15 deaths
For more information on San Francisco County cases, visit the public health department website.
SAN MATEO COUNTY: 701 confirmed cases, 21 deaths
For more information on San Mateo County cases, visit the public health department website.
SANTA CLARA COUNTY: 1,666 confirmed cases, 60 deaths
Fore more information on Santa Clara County cases, visit the public health department website.
SANTA CRUZ COUNTY: 91 confirmed cases, 1 death
For more information on Santa Cruz County cases, visit the public health department website.
SOLANO COUNTY: 135 confirmed cases, 2 deaths
For more information on Solano County cases, visit the public health department website.
SONOMA COUNTY: 147 confirmed cases, 2 deaths
For more information on Sonoma County cases, visit the public health department website.
MORE CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE:
Sign up for 'The Daily' newsletter for the latest on coronavirus here.
Amy Graff is a digital editor with SFGATE. Email her: agraff@sfgate.com."
