"GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X
Trending:
“Bubble Watch” digs into trends that may indicate economic and/or housing market troubles ahead.
Buzz: Most California homeowners appear to be skipping the start of the prime selling season at a pace that’s above the national average.
Source: Various data crunchers, the latest being Zillow, have analyzed the pace of existing homes being listed on the market.
Zillow found the number of new sellers between March 1 and April 5 dropped in five of six California metro areas tracked. Sacramento — one of 12 of 35 markets tracked nationally with more listings — with was the Golden State’s exception.
Let’s note that the battle against coronavirus has put limits on California home-selling as part of “stay and home” and “social distancing” mandates. Let’s also remember that early spring is usually homebuying’s annual sales rush.
But regardless of government policy, other factors are in play. One nationwide opinion poll found 85% of owners who were thinking of selling changed their plans due to the virus.
More than a few homeowners simply don’t want to put themselves through the face-to-face selling process in an age of “social distancing.” And the economic turmoil gives pause to others about testing the market.
In Los Angeles and Orange counties, homes put on the market between March 1 and April 5 were down 19% vs. the same period in 2019. Only eight of 35 big metro areas studied had bigger drops.
In Riverside and San Bernardino counties, existing homes coming to market dropped by 9% since March 1 vs. new listings a year ago — the 16th largest dip among the 35 metros.
Elsewhere in California, San Francisco (down 38%) had the state’s biggest drop in new sellers. New listings fell in San Diego (down 10%) and San Jose (down 6%), too.
Sacramento had a 14% gain, tied for third-largest gain among the 35 metros.
Inventory drops are a nationwide trend. New U.S. listings fell 19% in the March 1-to-April 5 timeframe vs. 2019.
The largest declines among the 35 tracked were in regions hard hit by coronavirus: Detroit (down 62%), Pittsburgh (down 55%) and New York (down 49%). The biggest gains were in Phoenix (up 18%) and Atlanta (up 16%).
On a scale of zero bubbles (no bubble here) to five bubbles (five-alarm warning) … TWO BUBBLES!
So far there’s no rush to sell. That may be about the only good news for a nervous market that’s obviously spooked by unfathomable business shutdowns and massive layoffs.
“It is clear that many would-be home sellers are adopting a wait-and-see approach as uncertainty continues to rule, ” said Zillow economist Skylar Olsen in comments that came with the report. “Our understanding of U.S. economic conditions is changing weekly, if not daily, and early unemployment figures are striking, so it’s understandable that some are hesitant to put their home on the market.”
But this pullback will certainly put a noteworthy dent in the size of the “move-up” and/or “downsizing” buyers who seek different housing after a sale. To me, that raises significant questions about demand. Consider the national surge in joblessness that includes at least 2.2 million suddenly up-of-work Californians.
Olsen isn’t as worried. Like many real estate insiders, he thinks fewer listings are more a virus-related delay.
“It is possible that this year’s busy home shopping season is pushed into winter as some opt to hang back but activity continues from those who need to buy or sell for a job move or another major life event,” he added. “What’s not likely is that the bulk of potential home sellers and buyers simply throw up their hands and pull back from the market entirely.”
Get Morning Report and other email newsletters
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you accept our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy.
OK"
