Article Title: Fact check: A list of false claims from Trump's bitter coronavirus briefing
, Posted On: Apr 13, 2020, At: https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/13/politics/fact-check-coronavirus-briefing-april-13/index.html

                            President Donald Trump delivered another litany of false and misleading claims on Monday at a White House coronavirus briefing during which he repeatedly accused the media of dishonesty. Trump delivered an indignant screed about claims that he was slow in responding to the coronavirus outbreak, repeatedly citing the travel restrictions on China he announced in late January and began in early February. Yet his defense did not address his public downplaying of the virus into March, how his administration was slow to deploy the tests experts believe might have helped contain the outbreak, or how the administration waited critical weeks to make large orders of critical equipment. Trump also falsely claimed he has "total" authority over states' coronavirus restrictions, falsely claimed he had inherited broken coronavirus tests, falsely claimed presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden apologized for having called him xenophobic, falsely claimed that governors have stopped talking about a need for ventilators, and falsely claimed he banned travel from Europe.  Here's our preliminary rundown of his claims and the facts that go with them. This will be updated throughout the night.  Fact checking a portion of the White House video presentation During the task force briefing, the White House presented a digital montage of TV and radio clips of Trump's early actions with the coronavirus. One clip featured audio from New York Times reporter Maggie Haberman, who can be heard describing how the President was criticized for his early travel ban from China. Facts First: The Haberman quotes are misleading as they edit out one of her key points: that the President's travel restriction was one of the last actions he took to address the coronavirus for weeks. Here's the Haberman quote as it was presented by the White House video: "As there were more cases and it was clear that it was spreading out of China -- where it originated -- the President took this move that he was widely criticized for by Democrats and even some Republicans at the time. Which was he halted a number of flights from China into the U.S. The idea was to halt the spread of the disease, keep transmissions to a minimum. He was accused of xenophobia. He was accused of making a racist move. At the end of the day, it was probably effective, because it did actually take a pretty aggressive measure against the spread of the virus." According to a transcript of The Daily podcast from March 25, here's the end of the quote, including a key point (in bold) at the end that was left out of the White House presentation: "At the end of the day, it was probably effective, because it did actually take a pretty aggressive measure against the spread of the virus. The problem is, it was one of the last things that he did for several weeks."  According to the transcript, the Daily's host Michael Barbaro asked a follow up question: "So the right decision in retrospect, but not accompanied by similar actions that might have contained transmission." Haberman responded: "That's exactly right. In the same way that George W. Bush was criticized for his 'Mission Accomplished' banner about Iraq, the President treated that moment as if it was his mission accomplished moment. He did not do anything after that in terms of alerting the public, or telling people to be safe, or telling people to take precautions. And it basically squandered several weeks within the US." As Haberman pointed out on Twitter, she went on to say that the President "treated that travel limitation as a Mission Accomplished moment," harkening back to former President George W. Bush. Joe Biden and the travel restrictions on China  Trump claimed that presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has apologized for having accused him of xenophobia on January 31, when Trump's administration announced its coronavirus travel restrictions on China. "He has since apologized and he said I did the right thing," Trump said. Facts First: Biden has not apologized for having called Trump xenophobic. Furthermore, it's not clear the former vice president even knew about Trump's China travel restrictions when he called him xenophobic on the day the restrictions were unveiled.  Biden's campaign announced in early April that he supports Trump's travel restrictions on China, so part of Trump's Monday claim is correct. But the Biden campaign did not say the former vice president had previously been wrong about the ban, much less apologize. Rather, the campaign says Biden's January 31 accusations -- that Trump has a record of "hysterical xenophobia" and "fear mongering" -- were not about the travel restrictions at all.  The campaign says Biden did not know about the restrictions at the time of his speech, since his campaign event in Iowa started shortly after the Trump administration briefing where the restrictions were revealed by Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar. Given the timing of the Biden remarks, it's not unreasonable for the Trump campaign to infer that the former vice president was talking about the travel restrictions. But Biden never took an explicit position on the restrictions until his April declaration of support -- and whether or not you accept his campaign's argument that the "xenophobia" claim was not about the restrictions, he certainly hasn't apologized for the accusation. Coronavirus testing At Monday's briefing, Trump implied that he had inherited flawed coronavirus tests from President Barack Obama's administration. "We literally rebuilt tests -- we rebuilt a whole industry because we inherited nothing," Trump said. "What we inherited from the previous administration was totally broken, which somebody should eventually say. Not only were the cupboards bare, as I say, but we inherited broken testing. Now we have great testing." Facts First: Since this is a new virus that was first identified this year, the tests for it are newly created, not inherited from the Obama administration. The faulty initial test for the coronavirus was created during Trump's administration, in early 2020, by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  The claim "doesn't make sense because it is false," Tara Smith, an epidemiology professor at Kent State University, said of a previous version of Trump's claim. "This a new virus." "He is lying. He is lying 100%. He is lying because he is trying to shift blame to others, even if the attempt is totally nonsensical," Gregg Gonsalves, an assistant professor in the Department of Epidemiology of Microbial Diseases at the Yale School of Public Health, said of a previous version of the claim. Trump has made versions of this claim on multiple occasions, shifting his rhetoric over time from a broader and more debatable claim that the testing "system" was flawed. While his Monday claim about having inherited "broken testing" is slightly vaguer than his claims about having inherited faulty or obsolete "tests," it creates the same impression. You can read more here about the President's various claims on inheriting tests.   President has 'total' authority over coronavirus restrictions Trump falsely claimed on Monday that, as President, he has "total" authority to decide to lift restrictions governors have imposed to fight the coronavirus pandemic. "When somebody's the President of the United States, the authority is total, and that's the way it's got to be," Trump said at the White House coronavirus briefing. Trump then said: "The authority of the President of the United States having to do with the subject we're talking about is total." And after speaking about local governments, he said, "They can't do anything without the approval of the President of the United States."  It wasn't clear if he was referring to state or local officials with that assertion. But he was wrong regardless. Facts First: The President does not have "total" authority over coronavirus restrictions. Without seeking or requiring Trump's permission, governors, mayors and school district officials imposed the restrictions that have kept citizens at home and shut down schools and businesses, and it's those same officials who have the power to decide when to lift those restrictions. There is no legislation that explicitly gives the President the power to override states' public health measures. In addition, Trump said last week that he prefers, because of the Constitution, to let governors make their own decisions on coronavirus restrictions. We can't say for sure that the courts would not side with Trump if he attempted to challenge state restrictions on some constitutional grounds he has not yet identified. However, many legal scholars believe Trump would lose. James Hodge, a professor and director of the Center for Public Health Law and Policy at Arizona State University, said Trump is "wrong" to claim he has the power to lift the states' coronavirus restrictions.  "He can strongly encourage, advise, or even litigate whether states' authorities to restrict public movements re: shelter in place or stay home orders are warranted, but cannot tell sovereign governors to lift these orders all at once just because the federal government determines it is high time to do so," Hodge said in an email. Trump's Monday evening comments at the briefing echoed tweets from earlier in the day in which he asserted that "it is the decision of the President," not governors, on when to "open up the states."  "This tweet is just false. The President has no formal legal authority to categorically override local or state shelter-in-place orders or to reopen schools and small businesses. No statute delegates to him such power; no constitutional provision invests him with such authority," Stephen Vladeck, a University of Texas law professor and CNN legal analyst, said on Twitter on Monday.  Trump did not personally shut down the economy. Rather, he issued nonbinding guidelines on how people should keep their distance from each other. The guidelines begin as follows: "Listen to and follow the directions of your STATE AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES." No legislation says the President has the power to overturn the public health decisions of these authorities, Vladeck and other legal scholars say.  Trump did not explain why he believes he has this power. When CNN's Kaitlan Collins asked him who told him he has "total" authority, he did not answer directly, instead saying, "We're going to write up papers on this."  When another reporter explained that the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution grants to states the powers not delegated to the federal government, Trump did not contest this interpretation -- and instead sidestepped the question, saying he did not believe a state official who refused to reopen the economy could win reelection.  Trump-friendly website Breitbart broached the possibility that Trump could try to use the Constitution's Commerce Cl
                        