Article Title: Pandemic raises the stakes in US' partisan religious divide
, Posted On: Apr 14, 2020, At: https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/14/politics/religious-exemptions-stay-at-home-orders-gop-democrats-divide/index.html

                            The battle over religious exemptions to coronavirus stay-at-home orders, which flared again over Easter weekend, captures the likelihood of steadily rising tension in coming years between an increasingly secular American society and the most religiously conservative voters, particularly white evangelical Protestants.  Though relatively few churches in fact sought to meet in person over Easter weekend, several religious leaders have prominently asserted that churches should be exempt from stay-at-home orders. The question has produced intense partisan conflict in some states, such as Kansas and Kentucky, where local Republicans and some church leaders have fought restrictions on in-service worshipping from Democratic governors.  These skirmishes mark a new front in a widening debate over the meaning of religious liberty in an era when white Christians, for the first time in American history, have fallen below a majority of the population -- and face no prospect of reversing that decline in a nation that is growing more diverse and more secular.  Compounding the volatility, these religious distinctions increasingly parallel the partisan divide. Studies show that white Christians still constitute a clear majority of self-identified Republicans; meanwhile, minorities, secular whites and Americans professing non-Christian faiths represent as many as three-fourths of Democrats.  The state-level response to the coronavirus outbreak shows the influence of those contrasting profiles. While both Democratic and Republican governors have carved out exemptions for religious institutions, GOP leaders have generally put more weight on asserting claims of religious freedom.  In Kansas, the GOP Legislature voted last week to overturn Democratic Gov. Laura Kelly's decision to include churches in her ban on large gatherings -- only to have the state Supreme Court uphold her jurisdiction in a ruling just hours before Easter Sunday. In Kentucky, Republican US Sens. Mitch McConnell and Rand Paul, along with the state's GOP attorney general, Daniel Cameron, denounced Democratic Gov. Andy Beshear's decision to send state troopers to record the license plates of anyone attending an in-person church service on Sunday -- and to request that those parishioners self-quarantine for 14 days. In Wisconsin, GOP legislative leaders pressed Democratic Gov. Tony Evers to allow in-person church services; he refused, but did agree to allow drive-in services in which worshippers never leave their cars. Forecast: More polarization Such clashes are just the latest measure of the divisions likely to multiply between a Republican coalition still centered on white Christians and a Democratic Party revolving around the disparate groups who don't fit under that shrinking canopy. "Long term it forecasts ... continued polarization between the parties and it'll make all kind of public policy issues very difficult to deal with," says University of Akron political scientist John C. Green, an expert in religion and politics. The pandemic sharpens these disputes because it so starkly raises the stakes for both sides: Not only has the crisis compelled governments to assert almost unprecedented authority to limit religious gatherings, but it also has magnified the potential impact of religious institutions' actions on the health of the broader community. The restrictions on gathering have unnerved some advocacy groups, who see them as potential harbingers of further constraints on religious freedom as American society grows more secular.  "I think this is really historic, what's going on," said Kelly Shackelford, president and CEO of the First Liberty Institute, a Texas-based group that promotes religious freedom from government intervention. "At the beginning everybody was kind of playing well together ... but what's started to happen now is you've got people ... starting to do crazy stuff and discriminate against the church and attack religious entities."  The question at this point, he says, is "whether we are going to have a loss of First Amendment rights and religious freedoms in a permanent way. What is the new normal after all of this, legally?" Conversely, Rachel Laser, president and CEO of Americans United for Separation of Church and State, says that exemptions for religious services in state gathering bans amount to unconstitutional discrimination in favor of religion.  "We should all be able to live confident in the promise of our Constitution that the government will not advantage or disadvantage any of us based on our religious beliefs, but with these religious exemptions that's exactly what the government is doing," she said. "They are saying some of us get special treatment because of our religious beliefs even when that special treatment puts lives at risk. It is immoral ... but it's also unconstitutional." Religion as dividing line These contrasting perspectives, like so many other divisions in American society, now align almost perfectly with the country's partisan divide. As in many other measures of American life in the 21st century, the US religious landscape is inexorably growing more diverse. But this systemic change has affected the parties in very different ways. The result is that religious affiliation has joined such key markers as race, age and geography as a principal dividing line between the two electoral coalitions. Whites who identified as Christian represented a majority of America's population for most of the nation's history; as recently as 1991, they accounted for about three-fourths of adults, according to the National Opinion Research Center's annual General Social Survey. But as the nation has grown more racially and religiously diverse, and also more secular, that number fell below 50% for the first time around 2010, according to the research center's data. More recent studies, from the Pew Research Center and the Public Religion Research Institute, two nonpartisan institutions, have found white Christians now account for only about two-fifths of the population. Adults unaffiliated with any religion have grown to represent one-fourth of the total, in both groups' studies, about the same share as racial minorities who identify as Christian.  But while white Christians have fallen below majority status nationwide, they still represent 64% of all self-identified Republicans, according to data Pew provided me last year from some 170,000 survey interviews conducted in 2018 and 2019. Nonwhite Christians represent another 14% of the party, Pew found, while those unaffiliated with any religion (15%) or belonging to non-Christian faiths (4%) composed most of the remainder. (The Public Religion Research Institute results were very similar.) The Democratic profile is strikingly different. White Christians now make up only 25% of the party, Pew found, while racial minorities who identify as Christian account for another 30%. About 1 in 11 Democrats observed non-Christian faiths. Fully one-third of Democrats don't identify with any religion at all -- a larger cohort than either group of Christians. (The Public Religion Research Institute study paints a slightly different picture among Democrats, placing white Christians at about a third of the party and the religiously unaffiliated around one-fourth.) By either the Pew or PRRI measures, the gap between each party's reliance on white Christians is as wide as at any point within memory. Most experts agree the Democratic coalition now revolves around two divergent pillars: religious African Americans and Hispanics and secular (mostly well-educated) whites. Meanwhile, the GOP coalition remains centered on white Christians, especially evangelical Protestants, who still compose about one-third of all Republicans and an even larger share of GOP primary voters (even as they have fallen to about one-sixth of the total population in the Pew data). The debate over how to treat religious institutions during the pandemic shows how all the pressures in modern politics push to further extend that difference.  A pandemic battlefield It's easy to see the Republican efforts to minimize constraints on religious gatherings alienating secular voters who view those policies, along with Laser, as favoring religion over science and public health. It's equally easy to imagine some devout voters, along with Shackelford, viewing the push to include religion in any restrictions as just another step in a long-term Democratic drive to extend government control over religious institutions, as in, for example, attempts to deny religious objections to participating in same-sex weddings. The coronavirus crisis "could very well" exacerbate the religious divide between the parties, notes Green, of the University of Akron. The key question, he says, is "how do existing divisions play out under the pressure of the crisis?" During the coronavirus pandemic, the critical battlefield for this conflict has been the question of whether to exempt religious services from state limits on large gatherings. Those exemptions have not entirely followed party lines. Republican governors in Ohio, Indiana and Maryland have banned or severely limited in-person church services. And to varying degrees, Democratic governors -- including in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, New Mexico and Connecticut -- have provided exemptions for religious gatherings. Yet Democratic governors have consistently been firmer in discouraging such gatherings, even if they have not banned them (either by choice or because they believe they lack the authority to do so). Just before Easter, Democratic Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, for instance, told a radio station that holding in-person services "is reckless, and it is dangerous and is only going to prolong the suffering that we're confronting as a state. It is just downright dangerous, irresponsible, and frankly it's infuriating."  Meanwhile, some Republican governors -- such as Ron DeSantis in Florida and Greg Abbott in Texas -- have stirred confusion by issuing statewide stay-at-home orders that appeared to preempt ordinances from local officials, usually Democrats, including religious services in bans on large gatherings. (Dallas maintained a ban on religious gatherings for Easter, Mayor Eric Johnson told me; Harris County (Houston) loosened its restrictions in line with the governor's order.) In stark contrast to Whitmer's language, US Attorney General William Barr, in an interview on Fox News last week, expressed fundamental skepticism about state laws that included churches in limits on gatherings.  "A free society depends on a vibrant religious life by the people," Barr said. "So anytime that's encroached upon by the government, I'm very, very concerned." Most in-person services on hold Across all faiths, it appears that the vast majority of religious institutions have suspended in-person worship, even in t
                        