Article Title: The impeachment trial is basically over
, Posted On: Jan 31, 2020, At: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/31/politics/trump-impeachment-senate-trial-week-in-review/index.html

                            The Senate's impeachment trial is careening toward its inevitable end, even if the timing on that end isn't yet clear. The Senate voted 51-49 against calling witnesses on Friday evening, with two Republicans, Sens. Susan Collins of Maine and Mitt Romney of Utah, joining Democrats to back extending the trial.  Questions around whether witnesses would be called had been essentially answered late Thursday night by Sen. Lamar Alexander.  Alexander, a Tennessee Republican not seeking reelection, was the potential fourth Republican who might have voted with Democrats in support of witnesses. Those other three were Collins, Romney and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. But after day two of Q&A's with the House impeachment managers and President Donald Trump's legal team, Alexander reached his conclusion:  "{T}here is no need for more evidence to prove something that has already been proven and that does not meet the United States Constitution's high bar for an impeachable offense. ... The question then is not whether the president did it, but whether the United States Senate or the American people should decide what to do about what he did. I believe that the Constitution provides that the people should make that decision in the presidential election that begins in Iowa on Monday." Translation: No witnesses. That opened the door for others to come out against witnesses as well, and Murkowski came out against them earlier Friday. That all but ensured the vote would fail, though Collins said she was in favor.  Yet timing for the final step of the trial, the actual acquittal, is still up in the air. Friday afternoon saw wrangling over whether senators could deliver floor statements before the vote itself, potentially extending the trial into next week. That complicates things, considering next week's calendar: the Iowa caucuses on Monday and the President's State of the Union address on Tuesday. The Point: The impeachment trial has nearly reached its predictable end, yet we can't quite predict when that end will come.  Monday, January 27 Senate impeachment trial: Trump's defense soldiers past Bolton revelations
Trump spiritual adviser says prayer asking for termination of 'all satanic pregnancies' was taken out of context
US advises citizens to reconsider travel to China after coronavirus outbreak Tuesday, January 28  House Democrats not invited to trade deal bill signing at White House
GOP senator says they've 'got to be able to see' Bolton manuscript before witness vote
Kushner defends Trump's Middle East plan after Palestinian rejection
Poll: 75% of voters want witnesses for Senate impeachment trial  Wednesday, January 29 White House has issued formal threat to Bolton to keep him from publishing book
Trump's attacks against Bolton highlight past attempts to influence witnesses
Alan Dershowitz argues presidential quid pro quos aimed at reelection are not impeachable
GOP senator up for reelection says he doesn't want witnesses in impeachment trial Thursday, January 30 House approves pair of measures reining in Trump's military action against Iran
All eyes on Alexander during impeachment votes
Woman who has accused Trump of sexual assault is seeking his DNA
More US service members diagnosed with traumatic brain injuries following Iran strike
Dershowitz distances himself from impeachment argument he made on Senate floor Friday, January 31 Attacks in Afghanistan spike as US weighs troop drawdown
John Delaney drops out of Democratic presidential race
Suspects arrested after SUV breaches Mar-a-Lago security And that was the week in 19 headlines.
                        