Article Title: 5 things to know for January 31: Coronavirus, impeachment, US military, Mexico, guns
, Posted On: Jan 31, 2020, At: https://www.cnn.com/2020/01/31/us/five-things-january-31-trnd/index.html

                            The time of Brexit is nigh. Today, the UK officially separates from the European Union. Not much will change at first, but the UK has a lot to get done by the end of the year, when the transition period ends.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.) 1. Coronavirus  The World Health Organization has officially declared the Wuhan coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern. The organization had been withholding such a declaration, but the rapidly rising number of diagnoses and deaths, plus the evidence of person-to-person transmission cases outside China (including one in the US), made them reconsider. It's largely a political move that serves as a signal to governments to take the outbreak seriously. At least 213 people are now dead from the disease, and more than 9,709 cases are confirmed worldwide. While everyone is worried about this particular outbreak, it's easy to forget about another deadly virus that has sickened more than 15 million Americans and killed more than 8,200 this season alone: influenza. Doctors say since the flu is more of a constant in American lives, it's easy to take for granted just how deadly it can be. 2. Impeachment  This could be the most crucial day in the impeachment trial yet. Today, the Senate will vote on whether to call witnesses. Despite the wave of uncertainty over revelations from former national security adviser John Bolton and despite ongoing debates about whether Chief Justice John Roberts can intervene to make sure witnesses are called, it appears Republicans will close ranks and vote against witnesses. That means the Senate could swiftly vote to acquit President Trump and end the trial, possibly today. What happens after it's all over? Well, there will be a lot to think about. In the short term, it's unclear how the whole saga will affect this year's presidential election. Constitutionally speaking, the broad presidential powers outlined by the President's defense could reshape the way future Oval Office occupants view their duties. 3. Iran  The US military is looking to bolster its defenses against Iran by putting Patriot missiles, a kind of surface-to-air missile defense system, in Iraq. However, the momentum in Iraq seems to be toward decreasing -- not increasing -- the US military presence there. The US will also levy new sanctions against Iran's Atomic Energy Organization to try to pressure the regime after it reneged on key nuclear commitments. These escalating strategies could squeeze the Iranian economy and affect ordinary citizens. In response, the US also recently approved of a new channel of humanitarian aid that will guarantee payment for exports of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, medical devices and other necessities into the country. 4. Mexico Mexico was plagued last year by the most murders the country had seen since records began. A staggering 35,588 murders were recorded by the National Public Safety Secretariat, due in part to a social crisis fueled by turf wars among drug cartels. In some parts of the country, communities have taken to defending themselves against the violence. In the state of Guerrero, which saw 1,891 intentional homicides last year, children as young as 6 are training to defend their neighborhoods as part of a self-defense militia. President Andrés Manuel López Obrador has vowed to curb Mexico's violence problem by addressing the poverty that often leads to gang membership, but he hasn't yet stemmed the bloodshed.  5. Gun laws  The Virginia House of Delegates passed a whopping seven gun safety bills yesterday. Democrats last year won control of Virginia's government, and they've wasted no time declaring gun control a priority for the brand-new legislative session. The new measures address universal background checks and substantial risk protective orders, and they limit the number of handgun purchases by a person to one per month. The legislation is expected to pass the state Senate, then be signed by the Democratic governor. Pro-gun groups are not happy with the push to redefine gun laws. Some counties and cities have passed informal measures to declare themselves "Second Amendment sanctuaries" in support of gun rights.  BREAKFAST BROWSE Tom Brady posted an extremely cryptic photo to his Instagram Just days before the Super Bowl? What does it all mean?!  Coke has released a new line of energy drinks  In case regular Coke just doesn't rev you up enough.  A new round of emojis includes gender-inclusive designs and a popular Italian hand gesture Pretty soon, we won't need to use words at all. A whole "5 Things" in emojis, anyone?  This new robot hand can 'sweat' through tiny pores on its 'fingerlike actuators' to stay cool Just like that classic Beatles song, "I Wanna Hold Your Fingerlike Actuators." A man suffering splitting headaches learned he had a tapeworm in his brain No no no no no no no no. (But the man is OK now, so also: Yes!)  TODAY'S QUOTE "The new US plan undercuts prospects for a just peace between Israelis and Palestinians. If implemented, the plan will doom the only viable solution to this long-running conflict, the two-state solution." Former President Jimmy Carter, with strong criticism for the White House's newly minted Middle East plan. Carter is a strong proponent for Palestinian rights and one of Israel's most vocal American critics. TODAY'S NUMBER 2,346 The number of victims of modern slavery whom London police identified in 2018. (Keep in mind, that's just the cases they knew about.) That's a 1,154% increase in recognized cases since 2013.  TOTAL RECALL Quiz time!  Former national security adviser John Bolton was formally warned by the White House about publishing his upcoming memoir, which contains allegations about President Trump and his dealings with Ukraine. What is the Broadway musical-inspired title of the memoir? A. "Right Hand Man"  B. "At the End of the Day"  C. "Carefully Taught"  D. "The Room Where It Happened" Play "Total Recall," CNN's weekly news quiz, to see if you're right. (Bonus points if you can name the musicals these songs are from.) TODAY'S WEATHER AND FINALLY The art of Portuguese tiles  Oh, don't mind us, we're just dreaming about tiling our whole house in these little hand-painted masterpieces. (Click here to view.) 
                        