Article Title: Don't lose hope now
, Posted On: Apr 12, 2020, At: https://www.cnn.com/2020/04/12/opinions/looking-for-hope-amid-tragedy-opinion-weekly-column-galant/index.html

                            On November 1, 1755, a series of earthquakes struck Lisbon, Portugal. Worshippers celebrating Mass on All Saints' Day were killed when cathedrals collapsed, fires broke out throughout the city and people rushed to the waterfront, where the waters had receded. Then a 20-foot high tsunami wave rolled in. Tens of thousands died that day.  In Voltaire's 18th-century satire "Candide," the fictional Dr. Pangloss, arriving in Lisbon just after the disaster, tries to find a silver lining: "If there is a volcano at Lisbon it cannot be elsewhere. It is impossible that things should be other than they are; for everything is right." A term was born -- "Panglossian" --  to describe absurd degrees of optimism. Covid-19 is taking a brutal toll on lives, illness and jobs, causing pain that will last a long time. More than 100,000 have died around the world and more than 20,000 in the US. Still, while the mourning proceeds, many are looking for signs of hope. Nearly two thirds of the way through the 45 days of social distancing recommended by the White House, the disease's spread has started to level off in parts of the US. Trillions of dollars of new spending, and back-up measures by the Federal Reserve, suggest some of the damage to the economy could be mitigated. Scientists are rapidly scaling up research into treatments for the virus and are seeking a vaccine that, within a year or two, could possibly vanquish the threat.   Charles McNair asked: "Who doesn't long for a miracle?" One sunny day in the 1960s, he and his three siblings joined a line in Dothan, Alabama, and filed into a building, where workers gave them each a sugar cube infused with a pink liquid. "Nothing ever tasted so sweet," McNair recalled. "On the way back to the car, mama told us what it all meant. 'Now,' she said, her nose and cheeks a little sunburned. 'Y'all are never gonna get polio.'"  Reaching back much further in history, Louis P. Masur recalled what happened to President Abraham Lincoln on his return from delivering the Gettysburg Address in 1863. "Lincoln had taken ill with varioloid fever, a mild but highly contagious form of smallpox," Masur wrote. Lincoln "joked that since becoming president, crowds of people had asked him to give them something and now he had something he could give everyone. He also commented, in typical self-deprecating fashion, that being ill offered the consolation that the disease, which could leave scars, 'cannot in the least disfigure me.'" Masur said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute for Allergies and Infectious Disease, and New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo are following in the 16th President's footsteps: "They have communicated the facts as they know them, have not shied away from telling the hard truth, have offered comfort to the grieving and have used humor, not to trivialize but to humanize these most difficult of times."  David Gergen and James Piltch cited another wartime leader, President Franklin D. Roosevelt as "a master of leadership in crisis" for his skill in mobilizing American workers and manufacturers to arm the US for victory in World War II. In contrast, they wrote, President Donald Trump "and his team have struggled to exercise effective, consistent leadership against an invisible enemy. On some days, Trump seems to listen to his health experts and understand the gravity of the situation. On other days, he reverts to narcissism, erratic decisions and petty fights."  The Queen's message In 1940, a 14-year-old Princess Elizabeth, joined at Windsor Castle by her sister Princess Margaret, broadcast a message to children who had been forced to evacuate because of war. On Sunday, Queen Elizabeth cited that broadcast as she noted that today many people were experiencing a "painful sense of separation from their loved ones." Holly Thomas praised her for "promoting a spirit of compassion" and for avoiding "the problematic habit of many world leaders who have relied on -- and sometimes abused -- war-like language" in describing the fight against the virus. Covid-19 is raising fundamental questions about who we are, wrote Frida Ghitis: "If ever we needed global leadership, it is now. There is none. Every country is looking out for itself. The role once filled by the United States is vacant, leaving humanitarians largely pleading into the abyss at a time when the magnitude of the expected need is so overwhelming, only a massive multinational response can do the job." The crisis, Ghitis wrote, "is revealing the essence of our identity. Are we heroes, doing our part for humankind? Or are we tribal, self-preserving individualists, erecting barriers; concerned only about our closest friends and relatives?"  A different Easter and Passover In a normal April, Americans would be observing the spring holidays, gathering for religious services or family events. But this Easter and Passover are different, with physical distancing canceling the vast majority of in-person events. Still the messages of the holidays resonate. When by chance Jay Parini encountered W.H. Auden in Oxford nearly 50 years ago, the famed poet offered him a generous bowl of vodka and some spiritual advice: "Rest in God." That message, Parini wrote, "invites us to relax into the power of the universe that sustains us, that holds us up, embraces us -- even to the point of death. This is, I think, the Easter message in a nutshell: trusting in God's power to transform our lives into something better." As Rabbi Shai Held wrote, Passover is all about gathering together, welcoming the stranger. "We are meant to open our homes to others, and in so doing, to open our hearts to them, too. And yet this year we are forced to remain apart. There is something profoundly sad about all this." Still, he wrote, "Let's try, in the face of real and legitimate fear and anxiety, to let our vulnerability help us to love more fully. Let's open our hearts, even if we cannot open our doors."  Family ties feel especially strong even though we're apart. At 39, Jack Gray is fortunate that all four of his grandparents are alive: "Between them, they taught me how to drive, fish, dispute a restaurant check and drink wine during the day." Gray is calling them regularly: "It is not a chore; it is a blessing. If you're fortunate enough to have any of your grandparents still alive, give them a call. You go way back."  Trump and the inspectors On Tuesday, President Trump demoted an acting inspector general who had been picked to monitor the implementation of the $2 trillion coronavirus relief package. The action came a day after he attacked another inspector general for her report on delays in virus testing and only a few days after he dismissed the intelligence community's inspector general. Trump, Jill Filipovic wrote, "doesn't like independent watchdogs because they're inconvenient for him; he prefers lapdogs. And so he is exploiting the pandemic to sack anyone who might point out just how terribly he has mangled the response."  Trump attacked the World Health Organization for its Covid-19 response, accusing it of being "China-centric" and suggesting that the US was paying too much to the organization. Michael Bociurkiw wrote that the WHO is "badly in need of reform" but questioned Trump's timing. "The global community still needs an authoritative body that sets standards, collates and studies all of the pieces of the Covid-19 puzzle coming in from affected countries, and leads us closer to obtaining a life-saving vaccine. The president underestimated the threat of Covid-19, wrote Alice Stewart, but so did House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. "We are all in this together," Stewart wrote. "No amount of blame is going to change that. It does nothing to cure the sick, put kids back in school, or get people back to work...In the midst of this unprecedented pandemic, six words should be taken to heart: help more, report facts, attack less."  Trump's enthusiasm for the drug hydroxychloroquine, which has not been proven effective against Covid-19 but is undergoing testing, was echoed by White House economist Peter Navarro.  But Fauci, a physician and immunologist, has made clear that he wants to see evidence that it clearly works before endorsing it as a treatment. Navarro falls into a category that has become "a mainstay of American culture in the last few decades," wrote Nicole Hemmer: the "well-credentialed huckster," asserting expertise outside their chosen fields.   For more on Covid-19: Terence Kealey: South Korea's coronavirus response: Listen to the experts   Dean Obeidallah: The Trump-Fox News feedback loop now going after Andrew Cuomo and Dr. Anthony Fauci   Michael D'Antonio: Why Trump doesn't want to wear a mask   Avi Garbow: Trump administration is rushing to gut environmental protections   Jeffrey D. Sachs: This is how we conquer Covid-19   Stan McChrystal and Terry McAuliffe: How to win the fight against a virus that knows no boundaries The impact The effect of Covid-19 isn't being felt equally across America. New York was hit harder than anywhere and as of Friday had more confirmed cases than any country outside the US. Infectious disease specialist Dr. Kent Sepkowitz wrote, "the explanation is the same for New York City as for Italy, New Orleans and probably Iran: the virus exploits weaknesses in health and health care." African Americans in many parts of the US were disproportionately represented among those who died.  "When compared with non-Hispanic white citizens in the US," Van Jones noted, "African Americans are 60% more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes, 20% more likely to die from heart disease, have the highest mortality rate of any racial and ethnic group for all cancers combined and for most major cancers, and represent 44% of the HIV positive population. In fact, as the virus smashes into black communities, it is actually one epidemic jumping on top of several other epidemics."  African Americans are also more likely to be frontline workers, wrote Catherine Powell. "In short, they must leave their homes and show up for work during a pandemic," she observed, adding that their jobs are also more likely to be eliminated during the crisis. "According to the Brookings Institution, urban areas -- where substantial communities of black and brown people live -- have the largest numbers of workers who are in immediate-risk industries."  Smokers and vapers are also at heightened risk from the pandemic. Dr. John Maa pointed out that "the FDA has advised that cigarette smoking and vaping may leave users with underlying health conditions and increase the risk of coronavirus pneumonia and increase its severity."  Vicky Ward wrote that the very rich had more options than most when the pandemic hit. "One hedge fund billionaire is at his ranch in Texas; another is isolating from other family members on a compound in Martha's Vineyar
                        