Article Title: 5 things to know for February 26: 2020 Dems, coronavirus, India, Disney, Syria
, Posted On: Feb 26, 2020, At: https://www.cnn.com/2020/02/26/us/five-things-february-26-trnd/index.html

                            Most of us will probably never journey to the moon. But this latest footage from NASA gets us pretty close.  Here's what you need to know to Get Up to Speed and Out the Door.  (You can also get "5 Things You Need to Know Today" delivered to your inbox daily. Sign up here.) 1. Democratic debate If they weren't already, the gloves definitely came off at last night's debate. The heat was on front-runner Bernie Sanders, with the other six candidates all taking shots at him in an attempt to knock him off the path to the Democratic nomination. Their case: Nominating the Vermont senator would weaken the Democratic Party in the general election, both against Trump and in House and Senate races on the ticket. It was a chaotic and messy debate, with the candidates shouting over each other incomprehensibly at times. And in the end, no one emerged completely unscathed. Read CNN's takeaways, and Chris Cillizza's list of winners and losers. Whether the other candidates made their case against Sanders successfully remains to be seen at the South Carolina primary this Saturday and the Super Tuesday contests next week.  2. Coronavirus Emergency measures and travel restrictions are in place worldwide, as outbreaks of the novel coronavirus continue to grow inside China and abroad. China reported more than 400 new cases today, but only five of them were outside the outbreak's epicenter. South Korea, Italy and Iran continue to grapple with the spread of the virus, while other countries in the Middle East see new infections, too. In the US, a top CDC official said it's not a question of if coronavirus will spread but when. She warned that the virus could bring severe disruption to American life and that people should get ready now. US cases have risen to 57, while a US soldier stationed in South Korea also tested positive for the virus. President Trump, however, assured that the virus is "going to go away," raising questions about how his administration would respond to an outbreak at home. 3. India At least 21 people have been killed and 188 injured in two days of violent clashes in New Delhi between hundreds of supporters and opponents of a new law that fast-tracks citizenship for non-Muslim minorities from select countries. The unrest erupted Monday in parts of the Indian capital, coinciding with President Trump's state visit. Authorities deployed tear gas, as police said protesters hurled stones and set vehicles and a gasoline pump on fire. Indians have been protesting the controversial citizenship law for months. Opposition parties say it's unconstitutional and would further marginalize the country's Muslims. The government, ruled by the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), says it's intended to protect religious minorities fleeing persecution.  4. Disney Bob Iger has stepped down as CEO of the Walt Disney Company. Iger, who may be the second most-important person in Disney history behind Walt himself, built the company into the giant it is today. He oversaw the acquisition Pixar, Marvel Studios, and Lucasfilm, all of which produced films that shattered box office records across the globe. The timing of Iger's announcement came as a shock to both Disney employees and the media world, and the question now is whether he can be replaced. He hands the reins to Bob Chapek, the head of Disney parks, experiences and products. Iger will remain with Disney to direct the company's creative endeavors through the end of 2021. 5. Syria At least 21 civilians were killed and more than 80 were injured yesterday in an attack in Idlib province in northwestern Syria, according to a medical relief group. Air strikes and ground attacks hit 10 schools and a hospital. Nine children and three teachers were among those killed, and three nurses and a doctor were among the injured. The Syrian government said yesterday that its forces seized several towns and villages in the southern Idlib countryside after army units carried out operations against terrorists. In the last two months, more than 832,000 people have fled the last opposition-held territory in Syria, after a relentless air campaign and a swift ground offensive by the Syrian regime and its Russian backers. Tens of thousands of people are still on the move. BREAKFAST BROWSE FDA issues a warning to Jimmy John's The agency said the sandwich chain's sprouts and cucumbers were linked to outbreaks of E. coli and salmonella. Duffy explains why she retreated from the spotlight The singer opened up to fans in an emotional Instagram post. Sorry hard-core athletes, electrolytes don't help as much as you think Chugging Gatorade won't save you, a study finds. Coca-Cola could be in short supply of artificial sweetener for diet and zero-sugar drinks because of coronavirus Time to stock up on Coke Zero. Jif settles the great debate over how to pronounce GIF That doesn't mean it makes sense. Woman returns beer stein to German brewery, 55 years after she stole it It's never too late to make amends. TODAY'S QUOTE "She's the only friend I'd skip school for." Pakistani activist Malala Yousafzai, upon meeting Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. To no one's surprise, they were fast friends. TODAY'S NUMBER 5 The number of months that Hot Pockets heiress Michelle Janavs was sentenced to serve in prison for paying bribes in the college admissions scam TODAY'S WEATHER AND FINALLY There's no place like home Especially if your home is an old 727 airplane. Or floating in a secluded cove. Or underground. Take a tour inside these unconventional places to live.
                        