"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
A pastor in Florida has been arrested for violating coronavirus social distancing rules by holding two large services at his church over the weekend.
Hillsborough County Sheriff Chad Chronister confirmed on Monday afternoon that Pastor Rodney Howard-Browne had been arrested.
“His reckless disregard for human life put hundreds of people in his congregation at risk and thousands of residents who may interact with them this week in danger,” the sheriff said.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
The River at Tampa Bay Church held two services on Sunday, despite a county order for residents to stay at home, and warnings from the sheriff's office to both Pastor Howard-Browne and church attorneys.
Sheriff Chronister said that the church has the ability to livestream services but still encouraged people to show up in person, even laying on buses for some of the congregation.
Sunday's livestream showed worshippers standing shoulder to shoulder while the church band played on stage.
“Because of the reckless disregard of public safety and after repeated requests and warnings, I worked with our state attorney, Andrew Warren, to obtain a warrant for unlawful assembly and violation of public health emergency rules, both of which are second degree misdemeanours,” Mr Chronister said. “Our goal here is not to stop anyone from worshipping, but the safety and well-being of our community must always come first.”
More follows…

No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
