"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
Fashion
By Nicole Zane
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 2:26pm
Brooks Brothers is sewing hope in the coronavirus fight.
Instead of churning out preppy staples like seersucker suits and woven-silk ties, America’s oldest retailer is now making masks and gowns for health care workers, as shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE) continue to grip hospitals nationwide.
The heritage brand has converted its New York, North Carolina and Massachusetts factories to produce the medical gear. Employees will return to their jobs this week (following a two-week precautionary self-quarantine) with a goal of turning out 150,000 masks per day. Gown production is also expected to begin shortly.
The fashion house, founded in 1818, points to its history of stepping up to aid the nation, including stitching Civil War military uniforms. “We consider this a duty, and part of our DNA at Brooks Brothers,” CEO Claudio Del Vecchio said in a statement.
The clothier says it reached out to federal and state leaders to offer assistance in battling COVID-19, and has teamed with Stop the Spread, a coalition of CEOs volunteering resources.
Fellow fashion brands H&M, Gap and Canada Goose have also pivoted their production lines in recent days to create PPE for health care workers on the front lines.
Read Next
The best women's pajamas and slippers to wear while workin...
Read Next
The best women's pajamas and slippers to wear while workin...
Share Selection
Stay informed with our Coronavirus Daily Update newsletter.
Read Latest Updates
This story has been shared 156,131 times.
156,131
This story has been shared 96,154 times.
96,154
This story has been shared 70,966 times.
70,966
This story has been shared 63,527 times.
63,527
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
