"Monika Bauerlein, CEO
Dear reader,
How are you holding up? I’ve been thinking a lot about what is happening with the Mother Jones community, and I’m hoping you’ll share what is happening in your life. You can do that and find out what Mother Jones is investigating in response to the pandemic in our new column, ""Greed Destroyed Our Social Immune System. It’s Time to Rebuild It."" Thanks for reading. Please stay safe.
In ""Greed Destroyed Our Social Immune System. It’s Time to Rebuild It,"" CEO Monika Bauerlein checks in with our community and shares how Mother Jones’ journalists are responding to the pandemic.
Mladen Antonov/AFP/Getty
As hospitals face a wave of patients with COVID-19, Dr. Christopher Garofalo, a family physician in Massachusetts, has become increasingly concerned about physicians working without masks and other protective equipment. In private Facebook groups for doctors, Garofalo asked them to share their experiences—and he received a torrent of responses from health care workers who said that hospital administrators forbade them from wearing the gear. The reasons for this vary: Some administrators say hospitals are afraid the gear could spread the virus to uninfected patients; others say administrators are worried that patients will be scared if they see doctors wearing masks.
Garofalo spoke to Mother Jones about the problem and provided some of the anonymous stories he has collected from health care workers. His remarks have been edited for length and clarity.
On his work: I’m a family physician in Massachusetts. I am a part owner of a private practice family medicine group called Family Medicine Associates of South Attleboro, which is on the Rhode Island border. I do general family medicine within that. And I also still deliver babies. That’s part of my old my practice of family medicine. It’s sort of a dying breed.
On what his office is doing right now: We have actually switched over to telemedicine. We are doing both phone visits with patients as well as video visits with patients, which helps to decrease the transmission, but it still provides them a way to have a face-to-face visit with somebody. The human interaction is really critically important in primary care.
We are a private office. I don’t work for a hospital. No hospital is going to fire me. That’s part of the reason why I can talk to you and a lot of other docs can’t.
On what he began to see in physician Facebook groups: I chair a group that’s called the Committee for Sustainability of Private Practice. Our goal is to keep private practice alive. I am also on several other private practice groups.
I started seeing some things on there about physicians who were saying, “I got yelled at by an administrator because I wore my mask in the hallway. And it’s going to scare patients. So I was told to take it off.” One of them had actually seen an email from the administrators that said, “We’re going to talk to the doctors to rein them in.”
I don’t know why it just hit me. Rein them in. Why would they want to do that? We try not to be arrogant, but physicians are some of the most educated people in the country. So I posted that in one of my groups. And I got responses that I had never seen before. And everybody started flooding with this story and that story.
On what hospital administrators are telling doctors: Here are a few of the stories that physicians sent to Garofalo on Facebook. Garofalo passed them along to Mother Jones without identifying information:
On why these doctors are afraid to speak out: Nobody wanted to go on the record. They did not want me to put any information in there. They didn’t want to send a memo or even a screenshot, because even if you remove the names, depending upon what other information might be in there or what the format of the memo looks like, that could be discoverable and noticeable.
When they’re employed by the big hospital systems in Boston or Pennsylvania or California, their paychecks come from them. They can’t speak out without fear of losing their job.
If you lose your job, it’s not just that you could lose your livelihood. You could also be labeled disruptive, and that can lead you to disciplinary action, which can get reported to the board of medicine, and you could lose your license.
We know that most doctors are employed by large hospital chains. We know that administrators don’t value physicians. They value us only insomuch as they can get us to work for them. But they know they have us over a barrel. If you as a physician are told to see more patients and you speak up, all of a sudden, you become, quote, disruptive. You’re labeled disruptive. The balance has shifted, and physicians don’t have the autonomy they used to have.
On his hope that hospital administrators will change their policies on doctors wearing masks: The tide has turned a little bit. For example, Partners HealthCare in Boston basically said everybody is wearing at least a surgical mask, period. Everybody, no matter where you are—you’re just wearing one. In our office we’re going to do this next week.
Subscribe to our free newsletters.
Mother Jones was founded as a nonprofit in 1976 because we knew corporations and the wealthy wouldn't fund the type of hard-hitting journalism we set out to do.
Today, reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget, allows us to dig deep on stories that matter, and lets us keep our reporting free for everyone. If you value what you get from Mother Jones, please join us with a tax-deductible donation today so we can keep on doing the type of journalism 2020 demands.
Mother Jones was founded as a nonprofit in 1976 because we knew corporations and the wealthy wouldn't fund the type of hard-hitting journalism we set out to do.
Today, reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget, allows us to dig deep on stories that matter, and lets us keep our reporting free for everyone. If you value what you get from Mother Jones, please join us with a tax-deductible donation today so we can keep on doing the type of journalism 2020 demands.
Fernanda Echavarri
Jesse Eisinger and James Bandler
Kara Voght
Tim Murphy
Will Peischel
Daniel King
Alexia Fernández Campbell
Fernanda Echavarri
Fernanda Echavarri
Fernanda Echavarri
Fernanda Echavarri
Brian Barth
Subscribe and we'll send  Mother Jones straight to your inbox.
Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights.
Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation.
We have a new comment system!
		We are now using Coral, from Vox Media, for comments on all new articles.
		We'd love your feedback.
Inexpensive, too! Subscribe today and get a full year of Mother Jones for just $12.
It's us but for your ears. Listen on Apple Podcasts.
Subscribe to our free newsletters.
Copyright © 2020 Mother Jones and the Foundation for National Progress. All Rights Reserved.Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund Mother Jones' investigative journalism? We're a nonprofit (so it's tax-deductible), and reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget.
We noticed you have an ad blocker on. Can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund Mother Jones' investigative journalism?"
