"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
News
By Mark Moore
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 2:21pm
NSA Whistleblower Edward Snowden warned that the use of surveillance to track coronavirus cases during the pandemic could continue once the crisis subsides, according to a report.
“When we see emergency measures passed, particularly today, they tend to be sticky,” Snowden said in an interview with the Copenhagen International Documentary Film Festival, CNET reported. “The emergency tends to be expanded. Then the authorities become comfortable with some new power. They start to like it.”
Snowden who released highly classified information from the National Security Agency, said governments could extend the access they have to monitor people’s personal information during a crisis.
During the coronavirus outbreak, governments could raise concerns about public health and send orders to smartphones and fitness trackers for information about pulse and heart rate.
Once the pandemic ends, they could raise other fears, like terrorism, and continue to gather the data.
“They already know what you’re looking at on the Internet,” Snowden said. “They already know where your phone is moving. Now they know what your heart rate is, what your pulse is. What happens when they start to intermix these and apply artificial intelligence to it?”
The report said the US government is working with Facebook and Google to use location data to keep track of where coronavirus cases are concentrated.
Snowden fled to Russia after the Justice Department unsealed espionage charges against him in 2013.
Read Next
Tuberculosis vaccine eyed in fight against coronavirus
Read Next
Tuberculosis vaccine eyed in fight against coronavirus
Share Selection
Stay informed with our Coronavirus Daily Update newsletter.
Read Latest Updates
This story has been shared 156,131 times.
156,131
This story has been shared 96,154 times.
96,154
This story has been shared 70,966 times.
70,966
This story has been shared 63,527 times.
63,527
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
