"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
Metro
By Ben Feuerherd
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 2:25pm				| Updated March 30, 2020 | 2:48pm
REUTERS/Andrew Kelly
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz
Paul Martinka
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid
Paul Martinka
Paul Martinka
View Slideshow
Crowds of gawkers ignored New York’s social-distance regulations and packed the west side of Manhattan on Monday to watch a US Navy hospital ship arrive to give badly needed coronavirus aid.
The throngs of people stood shoulder-to-shoulder and took photos of the USNS Comfort as it pulled into Pier 90 near West 50th Street at about 10:40 a.m., photos of the scene show.
Some waved American flags and others huddled up against one another at the fence of the pier. Meanwhile, joggers out for a morning run brushed past the onlookers.
At least a dozen NYPD cops stood by and initially did not disperse the bone-headed bystanders as they gathered and snapped cellphone photos of the ship pulling into the pier.
After members of the City Hall press corp tweeted about the throngs of people, Mayor de Blasio’s communications team directed the NYPD to get the crowds to disperse, sources told The Post.
De Blasio has said that New Yorkers who ignore orders from city officials to disperse could face $500 fines.
“The goal here is just to get people to comply for their safety and everyone’s safety,” de Blasio said on NY1 Monday morning.
“We still have some people who are holding out – what our officers and our other enforcement agencies are going to do, they’re going to go up to someone to say, you have got to disperse now,” he added.
The floating hospital was dispatched to New York to relieve the city’s overrun hospitals as coronavirus has spread like wildfire in the city and across the Empire State.
More than 1,000 people in the state have died from the virus, Gov. Andrew Cuomo said Monday from the Javits Center, the Manhattan convention center, which is now being used as a field hospital.
Cuomo welcomed the USNS Comfort in a tweet Monday morning, writing its arrival “will be remembered.”
“The hospital capacity we add now will save lives,” the governor wrote. “God bless New York.”
Read Next
Coronavirus in NY: Amazon's Staten Island employees strike...
Read Next
Coronavirus in NY: Amazon's Staten Island employees strike...
Share Selection
Stay informed with our Coronavirus Daily Update newsletter.
Read Latest Updates
This story has been shared 156,131 times.
156,131
This story has been shared 96,154 times.
96,154
This story has been shared 70,966 times.
70,966
This story has been shared 63,527 times.
63,527
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
