"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
Sports
By Marc Berman
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 2:22pm				| Updated March 30, 2020 | 2:32pm
Though news of the coronavirus pandemic has been discouraging, NBA executives still cling to hope of arranging a one-site, fan-less, 16-team playoff and a five-to-seven-game regular-season prelude, according to multiple NBA sources.
“They’re very determined to have a champion,” one industry source said.
The playoffs could be reduced to a slew of best-of-three series across the board. A single-game elimination format has been all but ruled out — only under consideration as a last resort.
“Nothing is off the table,” another league official said.
The notion of having teams finish up all of their regular-season schedule is barely an option at this stage. The Knicks (21-45) had 16 games remaining.
According to one source, getting some teams to a magical number of 70 regular-season games had been a goal, but in the last week has taken on less of a priority.
Regional networks have contracts that call for a minimum 70 games for its local teams. The 70-game contractual marker is in place to make sure marquee franchises aren’t regulars on exclusive national TV games.
NBA teams have played between 64 and 67 games but some have been national. The Knicks have had 64 of their 66 games on MSG Network.
The obvious destination for a one-site event is UNLV in Las Vegas, which has hosted recent summer leagues with all 30 clubs. Hotels are plentiful. One destination reportedly discussed was the Bahamas.
The best-case scenario is looking like a late June/early July start-up with the idea of the 2021-22 season not commencing until Christmas.
The June 25 NBA Draft would also have to be postponed if the season goes on until likely late August/September.
To date, the Knicks have lost out on eight games and were originally scheduled to play in Memphis Wednesday.
The NBA has still not ruled out cancelling the season altogether. ABC/ESPN broadcaster Jeff Van Gundy told The Post last week his gut tells him the season will ultimately be scrapped.
Read Next
Luka Doncic and girlfriend 'quarantine and chill' with the...
Read Next
Luka Doncic and girlfriend 'quarantine and chill' with the...
Share Selection

THE BEST INSIGHTS FROM THE ULTIMATE INSIDERS
Big Apple Buckets: A NY Knicks Podcast
	Listen on Apple Podcasts | Spotify
Pinstripe Pod - A NY Yankees Podcast
Listen on Apple Podcasts | Spotify
Amazin’ but True - A NY Mets Podcast
Listen on Apple Podcasts | Spotify
Up In The Blue Seats: A NY Rangers Podcast
Listen on Apple Podcasts | Spotify
See Odds
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
