"The coronavirus pandemic is slowing the court-overseen process of reforming the Chicago Police Department.
U.S District Judge Robert Dow Jr. has granted the city’s request for an extension of deadlines in the consent decree, a broad court order mandating changes to training, policy, supervision and discipline for the troubled department over the next five years.
Dow’s Friday order extends the deadlines 30 days or until Gov. J.B. Pritzker lifts his stay-at-home order, whichever is later. Pritzker’s directive is set to expire April 7 but the governor has suggested it could go on longer.
The city’s lawyers stated in a motion Thursday that “CPD personnel are on the front lines of the city’s response to the public health concerns caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.”
Along with the new challenges facing cops, the city’s motion said that civilian personnel, including those in the unit responsible for implementing the consent decree, were being deployed to “perform critical city functions necessary to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and respond to the rapidly changing needs of the community.”
“Addressing the COVID-19 pandemic and its ripple effects has become the top priority for the city and CPD,” the city’s lawyers wrote.
COVID-19 appears likely to further delay a process that already was lagging. In November, the former federal prosecutor tasked with monitoring the city’s progress, Maggie Hickey, wrote that the city missed 37 of its 50 deadlines for implementing parts of the decree. The consent decree is the result of the push for reform that started more than four years ago with the release of video of a white police officer shooting black teenager Laquan McDonald 16 times.
Neither Hickey nor lawyers for Illinois Attorney General Kwame Raoul objected to the delay, city attorneys wrote. Raoul inherited a role in the litigation from his predecessor, Lisa Madigan, who sued the city to force the reforms in 2017 after then-Mayor Rahm Emanuel wavered on the need for court oversight.
Dow’s order comes amid a wider slowdown in the federal courts. Locally, Chief Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer suspended most criminal and civil actions at the federal courthouses in downtown Chicago and Rockford — aside from emergencies — until at least April 6."
