"By Jemma Carr For Mailonline
Published:  13:08 EDT, 30 March 2020   |  Updated:  14:03 EDT, 30 March 2020

232
View  comments

Stockpilers are continuing to throw away perfectly-good food after hoarding more than they can consume due to coronavirus panic buying.
Unopened tins of food and packets of pasta filled a black bin in Bury, Greater Manchester, today as Britain's coronavirus death toll increased by 180 in 24 hours bringing the total fatalities to 1,408.
A picture of the bin was shared to Twitter, prompting social media users to slam the panic buyers as 'disgraceful'.
Stockpilers are throwing away perfectly-good food after hoarding more than they can consume due to coronavirus panic buying in Bury, Greater Manchester




A picture of the bin was shared to Twitter, prompting social media users to slam the panic buyers as 'disgraceful'
And over the weekend, loaves of bread, bunches of bananas and unopened packs of chicken products were tossed aside after they went past their use by date in Derby.
Panic about the killer bug prompted Britons to flock to supermarkets over the last few weeks to stock up on basic, long-lasting food.
Since then, strict lockdown rules were introduced, instructing Britons to only leave the house once a day and to shop only for essentials.
A bin full of discarded potatoes (left) was spotted and another was seen full to the brim of fresh produce
Supermarkets are offering elderly customers priority time slots for home deliveries and cutting down on how many shoppers are allowed to be in the store at the same time.
Donna Ball, the executive director of operations at Bury council, shared a picture of a full bin to social media today prompting outrage.
She wrote: 'The madness continues, if you are throwing perfectly good food in the bin that could support your food banks then give your head a bloody wobble!
'Binmen daily seeing good food thrown in black bins. This had bags of pasta underneath also.'
over the weekend, loaves of bread, bunches of bananas and unopened packs of chicken products were tossed aside after they went past their use by date.
Maggie Kufeldt replied: 'Goodness - who are these people? My blood is boiling!'
Col Barlow wrote: 'Ok why would anyone throw away unopened tins of food, there's over half a dozen in view.'
John Currie added: 'WTF is wrong with people in this country?'
Email pictures@mailonline.co.uk
Nicole added: 'Should name and shame them! It’s disgraceful! They could feed a poor family who haven’t got the money! It angers me so much!'
Over the weekend, former Liberal Democrat Councillor Ajit Singh Atwal shared a series of images on social media that showed rubbish bins overflowing with discarded food.
Mr Atwal, a former Liberal Democrat Councillor, posted the photos on Twitter alongside the caption: 'To all the people in this great city of ours in Derby, if you have gone out and panic bought like a lot of you have and stacked up your houses with unnecessary items you don't normally buy or you have bought in more food than you need, then you need to take a good look at yourself'
He posted the photos with the caption: 'To all the people in this great city of ours in Derby, if you have gone out and panic bought like a lot of you have and stacked up your houses with unnecessary items you don't normally buy or you have bought in more food than you need, then you need to take a good look at yourself.'
One social media user who shared the pictures wrote: 'Absolutely disgusting! Wasteful hoarding pigs! Those bins should have wheeled around to the needy at the very least.'
The coronavirus outbreak in the UK may finally be starting to slow after the daily death toll dropped for the second day in a row, with 180 new fatalities recorded overnight.
A member of staff enforced social distancing rules in a queue outside Waitrose in Frimley, south west London
Shoppers queued up outside a Waitrose in Frimley to get their shopping as the store imposed social distancing measures
As of this afternoon a total of 1,408 people in Britain have died from coronavirus.
England recorded 159 new deaths in the last 24 hours, while Wales reported 14, Scotland six and Northern Ireland one.
It marks the first time the daily increase in deaths has fallen for two days straight, dropping from 209 on Sunday and 260 on Saturday - in what was Britain's darkest day in the crisis yet.
But there are fears of a fresh spike in fatalities tomorrow because officials will count deaths outside of hospitals for the first time.
Until now, the figures have not included people who succumbed to the virus before being admitted to hospital.
Share what you think
The comments below have not been moderated.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.

Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.
You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group"
