"Monika Bauerlein, CEO
Dear reader,
How are you holding up? I’ve been thinking a lot about what is happening with the Mother Jones community, and I’m hoping you’ll share what is happening in your life. You can do that and find out what Mother Jones is investigating in response to the pandemic in our new column, ""Greed Destroyed Our Social Immune System. It’s Time to Rebuild It."" Thanks for reading. Please stay safe.
In ""Greed Destroyed Our Social Immune System. It’s Time to Rebuild It,"" CEO Monika Bauerlein checks in with our community and shares how Mother Jones’ journalists are responding to the pandemic.
President Trump just flat out admitted that Republicans will lose elections if more people vote.
“The things they had in there were crazy,” Trump said on Monday morning, discussing voting provisions pushed by Democrats in a coronavirus response package. “They had things, levels of voting that if you ever agreed to it you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again.”
Watch the clip from “Fox & Friends” below:
TRUMP: “The things they had in there were crazy. They had levels of voting, that if you ever agreed to it you’d never have a Republican elected in this country again.”
Call Congress: 202-224-3121
Demand national vote by mail by November 3rd. We need those “levels of voting.” pic.twitter.com/N8mR8mFsDJ
— Vote Save America (@votesaveamerica) March 30, 2020

As states around the country postpone elections, congressional Democrats have pushed for funding and legal authority to institute vote by mail and other procedures to ensure broad and safe democratic participation in a pandemic. While Republicans have complained about how the crisis is being used to “federalize elections,” the president’s comments suggest those protests are actually motivated by GOP lawmakers’ fear of losing their jobs.

Subscribe to our free newsletters.
Mother Jones was founded as a nonprofit in 1976 because we knew corporations and the wealthy wouldn't fund the type of hard-hitting journalism we set out to do.
Today, reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget, allows us to dig deep on stories that matter, and lets us keep our reporting free for everyone. If you value what you get from Mother Jones, please join us with a tax-deductible donation today so we can keep on doing the type of journalism 2020 demands.
Mother Jones was founded as a nonprofit in 1976 because we knew corporations and the wealthy wouldn't fund the type of hard-hitting journalism we set out to do.
Today, reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget, allows us to dig deep on stories that matter, and lets us keep our reporting free for everyone. If you value what you get from Mother Jones, please join us with a tax-deductible donation today so we can keep on doing the type of journalism 2020 demands.
AJ Vicens
AJ Vicens
AJ Vicens
Samantha Michaels
Will Peischel
Daniel King
Alexia Fernández Campbell
Fernanda Echavarri
Fernanda Echavarri
Fernanda Echavarri
Fernanda Echavarri
Brian Barth
Subscribe and we'll send  Mother Jones straight to your inbox.
Save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights.
Help Mother Jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation.
We have a new comment system!
		We are now using Coral, from Vox Media, for comments on all new articles.
		We'd love your feedback.
Inexpensive, too! Subscribe today and get a full year of Mother Jones for just $12.
It's us but for your ears. Listen on Apple Podcasts.
Subscribe to our free newsletters.
Copyright © 2020 Mother Jones and the Foundation for National Progress. All Rights Reserved.Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund Mother Jones' investigative journalism? We're a nonprofit (so it's tax-deductible), and reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget.
We noticed you have an ad blocker on. Can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund Mother Jones' investigative journalism?"
