"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
News
By Emily Jacobs
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 2:04pm
The Senate GOP-led effort to investigate Hunter Biden’s role on the board of Ukrainian gas company Burisma Holdings appears to be on hold as the coronavirus pandemic has shifted all of Congress’ attention.
The probe appeared to to be taking off just weeks ago, after the Senate Homeland Security Committee, led by Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), secured enough support to vote in favor of launching a probe into the younger Biden’s work in Ukraine during his father’s tenure as Vice President.
Now, with coronavirus at the forefront of Americans’ minds, Johnson says the probe has been put on hold — at least until after the Senate’s extended recess, which ends on April 20.
“There’s not much we can do for the time being, is there?” Johnson said when asked by The Hill about his subpoena plans, “It is what it is.”
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), who is working with Johnson on the potential probe, told the outlet that work is still being done on the matter by Senate and committee aides, but that lawmakers focus was elsewhere.
“Our oversight team has continued their work on ongoing matters,” Grassley spokesman Taylor Foy said.
Senate Republicans argue that Democratic presidential frontrunner Joe Biden may have acted inappropriately as vice president when his son Hunter — who had no material experience for the job — was given a high-paying seat on the board of Burisma when the elder Biden was in charge of US policy toward Ukraine.
The Bidens have denied any wrongdoing.
Read Next
Mark Meadows leaving Congress to become White House chief ...
Read Next
Mark Meadows leaving Congress to become White House chief ...
Share Selection
This story has been shared 175,549 times.
175,549
This story has been shared 116,554 times.
116,554
This story has been shared 75,158 times.
75,158
Stay informed with our Coronavirus Daily Update newsletter.
Read Latest Updates
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
