"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
By Eileen Reslen
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 1:42pm
Heather Locklear came out of social media hibernation to express her gratitude to all of the essential workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus crisis.
“We are all going through a challenging time right now,” she said in a video shared on her Instagram. “I at first want to say thank you to all the first responders, to the people who you order from and they deliver, the deliveries, the doctors, the nurses, the EMTs, everyone who helps us, the bank tellers, people who are working and maybe being susceptible.”
Locklear, 58, then took a light-hearted turn and poked fun at her “Melrose Place” character.
“The ’90s are back,” she said, pointing to her hair. “Amanda Woodward’s roots are alive and well and I think we should embrace it, ladies and a few men.”
Locklear asked her followers to share with her how they are keeping busy during self-quarantine and what’s keeping them “happy” and “grateful.”
“We will get through this by staying apart,” she added, sharing that she is grateful for her dog, Mister, and her daughter, Ava.
Locklear’s Instagram often features her 22-year-old and pup, but the actress rarely posts about herself.
In August, the former soap star celebrated her sobriety, with a photo of a notebook that said, “YOU’RE STILL SOBER. KEEP THAT S—T UP,” and the caption, “So grateful.”
Read Next
See the engagement ring 'Bachelor' alum Ben Higgins gave J...
Read Next
See the engagement ring 'Bachelor' alum Ben Higgins gave J...
Share Selection





This story has been shared 25,043 times.
25,043
This story has been shared 21,908 times.
21,908
This story has been shared 21,528 times.
21,528
This story has been shared 18,234 times.
18,234
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
