"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
Metro
By Israel Salas-Rodriguez and Jorge Fitz-Gibbon
Submit
March 30, 2020 | 1:50pm
Getty Images
Getty Images
Getty Images
Getty Images
Getty Images
View Slideshow
Sign up for our special edition newsletter to get a daily update on the coronavirus pandemic.
Amazon workers at a Staten Island warehouse walked off the job Monday, fired up that th company allegedly failed to protect them from the coronavirus after a worker at the facility tested positive for the deadly bug.
More than 100 workers walked off the job at the Bloomfield warehouse around 12:30 p.m.
Workers at the facility, which employees about 2,500 people, said supervisors kept them in the dark about the positive case, and are demanding that the plant be shut down and sanitized so they can safely return to their jobs.
The infected worker was last at the plant on March 11 and is currently quarantined and being treated, Amazon said last week. The company also urged employees who were in touch with the worker to self-quarantine at home for 14 days.
“They don’t provide anything, not a mask or gloves,” said Amazon worker Hellen Rangel, 30. “I use my own scarf to cover my face. My manager is not in the building. He hasn’t been in for a while. The second manager is out sick and I’ve been in contact with him a lot.”
The company did not respond to a request for comment Monday.
In a statement Sunday, an Amazon spokesman said the company has taken “extreme measures” to protect workers, including “tripling down” on cleaning, obtaining safety gear and having employees keep safe distances from each other.
In a separate work action, about 200,000 employees at the online grocery shopping company Instacart said they would also walk off the job Monday amid coronavirus safety concerns and wages for workers working through the virus.
Instacart did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday.
Read Next
Bronx man arrested while on the lam for fatally beating hi...
Read Next
Bronx man arrested while on the lam for fatally beating hi...
Share Selection
Stay informed with our Coronavirus Daily Update newsletter.
Read Latest Updates
This story has been shared 169,400 times.
169,400
This story has been shared 109,001 times.
109,001
This story has been shared 73,675 times.
73,675
This story has been shared 65,633 times.
65,633
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
