"By Connie Ogle
Finding a bit of happy news is hard during the coronavirus pandemic. But Miami-Dade Animal Services has some to report: More people are fostering dogs than ever before.
“We’re really touched by how the community has come together to help our shelter and give these pets a home during this time,” said the shelter’s public information officer Flora Bell.
Bell says the adoption numbers are holding steady - good news in itself at a time when economic uncertainty rages in Miami-Dade County, South Florida and the entire country.
But fostering - offering a home for a pet until it’s adopted into its forever home - has gone up 50 percent from last year.
Subscribe for unlimited digital access to the news that matters to your community.
In addition to the fact that more people are working from home due to the coronavirus outbreak, Bell attributes the increase to people needing to feel useful.
“From the conversations I’ve had, a lot of people are looking for a way they can help during this time,” she said. “Even in a small way.”
Being fostered makes a huge difference to a dog’s chances of being adopted, Bell says. Shelter workers and volunteers always play with the dogs, walk them and socialize them. But nothing beats the one-on-one environment of a foster home.
“It’s so much more intimate,” Bell says. “They get re-acclimated to being in a home. They get potty training and routines and play games with foster families. They learn how to fetch and sit. The foster family bonds with them. They’re giving these pets a break from the shelter environment, which makes them more likely to get adopted.”
Adoption is the goal, of course, and Miami-Dade Animal Services has started a “virtual adoption” program by which you can meet your dream pet online and set up an appointment to come get them. Call it puppy curbside pickup.
Still, fostering is the next-best thing. The shelter pays for food, leashes, bowls and other items. And yes, you can foster cats, too. Can’t do either? You can always donate.
3599 NW 79th Ave, Doral
To sign up for fostering: email asdfoster@miamidade.gov
To donate to the foster program or the shelter: www.miamidade.gov/global/animals/donations.page
By Greg Cote
This is how this pandemic has changed how we see sports. The games have never seemed more important, in their absence, as we miss them. Or less important as we send doctors and nurses to fight COVID-19.
Subscribe for unlimited digital access to the news that matters to your community.
Real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand."
