"A cluster of Qantas baggage handlers and two Border Force officials from separate states are among the new COVID-19 cases confirmed in Australia.
Qantas grounded seven flights after six baggage handlers working at Adelaide airport tested positive. Read more from our reporters Rachel Eddie and Megan Gorrey: Six Qantas baggage handlers test positive to coronavirus
And The Department of Home Affairs says a Border Force official in Queensland and another in NSW have also tested positive.
American Airlines, the world's biggest carrier when it comes to passenger numbers, is seeking a $US12 billion (around $20 billion) bailout from the US government.
American Airlines jets sitting idle in Phoenix a result of the collapse in travel because of the coronavirus pandemic.Credit:AP
The company believes that the state aid will enable it to operate without cutting pay or standing down staff while flights are grounded as a result of the coronavirus pandemic and various international travel bans imposed around the world.
In the UK, British Airways stopped all flights from Gatwick Airport, the country's second-busiest airport.
Spain has recorded 849 new deaths, the highest daily toll since the pandemic hit the southern European country.
Coronavirus has now claimed the lives of 8189 people forcing authorities in Madrid to open a second temporary morgue after an ice rink pressed into service last week become overwhelmed.
Dozens of hotels across Spain have been turned into recovery rooms for patients in less-serious condition, and authorities are building field hospitals in sports centres, libraries and exhibition halls.
Hello and welcome to our live coverage of the coronavirus pandemic for Wednesday, April 1, 2020.
Global coronavirus cases have passed 800,000, according to the Johns Hopkins University tally. More than 38,000 people have died and more than 172,000 have recovered.
In Australia:
In other major developments:
Recap our coverage here: As the day unfolded: Scott Morrison's social distancing rules to be enforced in NSW with $11,000 fine, global COVID-19 cases surpass 782,000
Copyright © 2020"
