"LA Times: They were ready to roll whenever disaster struck California: three 200-bed mobile hospitals that could be deployed to the scene of a crisis on flatbed trucks and provide advanced medical care to the injured and sick within 72 hours.
Each hospital would be the size of a football field, with a surgery ward, intensive care unit and X-ray equipment. Medical response teams would also have access to a massive stockpile of emergency supplies: 50 million N95 respirators, 2,400 portable ventilators and kits to set up 21,000 additional patient beds wherever they were needed.
In 2006, citing the threat of avian flu, then-Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger announced the state would invest hundreds of millions of dollars in a powerful set of medical weapons to deploy in the case of large-scale emergencies and natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires and pandemics.
…But the ambitious effort, which would have been vital as the state confronts the new coronavirus today, hit a wall: a brutal recession, a free fall in state revenues — and in 2011, the administration of a fiscally minded Democratic governor, Jerry Brown, who came into office facing a $26-billion deficit.
And so, that year, the state cut off the money to store and maintain the stockpile of supplies and the mobile hospitals. The hospitals were defunded before they’d ever been used.
…Together, these two programs would have positioned California to more rapidly respond as its COVID-19 cases exploded. The annual savings for eliminating both programs? No more than $5.8 million per year, according to state budget records, a tiny fraction of the 2011 budget, which totaled $129 billion.
…Now, many California hospitals are being forced to ration their inadequate supply of N95 masks, and hospitals are rushing to rent ventilators in anticipation of a severe shortage as COVID-19 caseloads grow.
A useful reminder that failure to prepare for low probability but high cost events spans the political spectrum.
""A useful reminder that failure to prepare for low probability but high cost events spans the political spectrum.""
Sorry, Alex this advice is nearly useless. Humans don't think that way. We'll no doubt beef up our infectious disease protection going forward, because we'll have had modern relevant experience with it after this virus is dealt with.
However, we'll have dozens of other low risk scenarios and we won't be able to fund many of them. Without a crystal ball, low risk events will always get little attention.
Remember this as the killer asteroid is approaching.
It's all a got'cha game.
Bring Out Your Dead.
It's not politics, it's r-selection. Cali has no trouble finding money (or borrowing it, to be precise) to fund social welfare for residents, non-residents, and everyone in between. Gotta live high on the hog and pretend death doesn't exist. That's the rabbit way.
An implicit rebuke of his co-poster's defensive ""mixed"" review of a certain executive?
>""... spans the political spectrum.""
Yeah, right.   It spans all the way over to ""fiscally-minded"" Dems.
Gotta love how they threw that in there.   Any Republican who did this would be called incompetent, criminal, impeachable, etc.   But a Dem who does it can safely be defended as ""fiscally-minded.""
Enter your email address to subscribe to updates.
Email Address
Subscribe
Alex Tabarrok
 Email Alex
 Follow @atabarrok
Tyler Cowen
 Email Tyler
 Follow @tylercowen
Webmaster
 Report an issue"
