"This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2020 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      All market data delayed 20 minutes.
Plan on taking a cruse during the corona virus outbreak? Here are some precautions to take.
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox. Sign up here.
Amid the global coronavirus pandemic and related travel restrictions, several cruise ships carrying thousands of passengers are ""stranded"" at sea, a major association of cruise lines said Monday.
The group Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA,) which counts Carnival, Royal Caribbean and Princess Cruise Lines among its 38 member cruise companies, confirmed that about 3.6 percent of its 277-ship fleet – about 10 vessels – are still at sea, People reports. Another five vessels are reportedly docked, but passengers cannot yet disembark.
In this March 28 photo, Laura Gabaroni and her husband Juan Huergo take a selfie on board a tender after they were evacuated from the Zaandam, a Holland American cruise ship, near the Panama Canal. (Juan Huergo via AP)
CRUISING DURING THE CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK: SHOULD I CANCEL MY CRUISE? WHAT PRECAUTIONS SHOULD I TAKE?
Though all but one of the ships have a final destination port identified, the cruise ships are effectively “stranded” at sea for the time being, People claims. There is no guarantee that the ports the cruise ships are traveling toward will ultimately accept them, either.
On March 13, the CLIA announced that its ocean-faring member cruise lines would ""voluntarily and temporarily"" be suspending operations from U.S. ports for 30 days during the coronavirus crisis, the organization said. The Department of Homeland Security instructed 40 cruise ships, which were at sea, to return to port by the end of March, according to the outlet.
The Zaandam cruise ship, left, carrying some guests with flu-like symptoms, is anchored shortly after it arrived to the bay of Panama City on March 27, amid the worldwide spread of the new coronavirus. (AP Photo/Arnulfo Franco)
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
Later on Tuesday, Florida officials are scheduled to meet to decide whether to allow Holland America's Zandaam and Rotterdam ships to dock at Broward County's Port Everglades cruise ship terminal, The Associated Press reports.
The ships, which are carrying passengers and crew from an ill-fated South American cruise, are begging local leaders to let them carry off those infected with the coronavirus and the dead, but Gov. Ron DeSantis has claimed that the health care resources in the Sunshine State are already stretched too thin.
FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS
Amid the global COVID-19 pandemic, many cruise lines around the world have extended the suspension of upcoming voyages. Most have delayed future excursions until at least May.
In this March 14 photo, Juan Huergo and his wife Laura Gabaroni pose for a photo in Punta Arenas, Chile. The couple were on the cruise vacation to Buenos Aires and Chile when the corona virus pandemic started to spread. (Juan Huergo via AP)
In recent days, Carnival Cruise Line, Royal Caribbean International, MSC Cruises, Disney Cruise Line, Cunard Line and Seabourn Cruise Line have all announced the extended suspension of new departures.
CLICK HERE FOR FOX NEWS' CONTINUING CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the U.S. State Department have advised that Americans to avoid traveling by cruise ship.
Fox News’ Michael Bartiromo and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
Fun stories about food, relationships, the great outdoors and more.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2020 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes."
