"That is the topic of my latest Bloomberg column, here is one excerpt:
Most of all, there will be an exodus of elderly residents. New York City will become even more the province of young people, assuming the role that Berlin has long played in Germany. That will be good for the city’s long-run vitality. [TC: No, I am not saying this is a good thing overall.]
Rents and land prices are likely to fall. This is not necessarily because of a high number of deaths, a ghoulish and difficult detail to predict. Nonetheless many businesses will think twice about locating their headquarters in New York City, if only because senior managers tend to be relatively old. The net effect will be to make the city less attractive for businesses but more affordable for residents, most of all young people. It will be more like the New York of the 1970s and 1980s, with fear of infection replacing the fear of crime.
And:
If Covid-19 survivors have immunity, as is the case with many viruses, the city’s social life may become very segregated. Survivors will have time-stamped immunity certificates and lead relatively active social lives. Those who have not had the virus will be far more Puritan — spending more time online, refusing to shake hands, biking rather than taking the subway. Different bars and even different parts of town will have reputations as better for one group or the other.
This kind of segregation is not an especially appealing prospect. Yet New York City, with its incredible choice and diversity, will be better suited to deal with it than will rural or suburban America. Of course if you haven’t been infected yet, and cannot prove immunity and get into the safe clubs and bars, you will be all the more scared to visit the riskier outlets available to you.
In fact many people, especially the young, may actually expose themselves to the virus deliberately, to join what is ostensibly the more fun-seeking crowd. Maybe there will be bars and parties for people in the “actively infected” phase.
I hope to return to the broader topic of our future in subsequent posts.  And here is a new NBER piece that the coronavirus curve already is flattening in NYC.
I've been thinking a lot about what my city (west coast suburb) will look like after this initial wave is over, and the thought of ""safe"" bars and restaurants where COVID19 immune people will visit seems very likely.
I guess one major question is will people signal their immunity (or, disinterest in catching it) OR will they signal that they are a high risk person who does not want to be near infected types? The latter still need to buy groceries and still have a life.
Another possible scenario is taking precautions like measuring temperature before you enter anywehere (like they do in China) And people avoiding establishments where such precautions are not in place.
I'm not sure which situation is more likely: yours or mine. :-)
I remember Jeffrey Harris very well from my time in grad school. A person with a rare grasp of health economics.
The mentality that leads people to live like rats is not a mentality that leads them to leave a decadent and unsustainable lifestyle because of one little disease.
This virus won't be around long enough to drastically change human behavior. Certainly, masks will become more common and who knows the CDC might even grow a pair and admit they are wrong about the issue.
I suspect that working remotely will have a significant jump in usage. It was already economically advantageous. This virus will loosen the societal prohibitions that acted to suppress it.
Infectious diseases will become a bigger part of the healthcare budget, Hand washing will become a little more thorough. Public touching will become a little less common.
However, I doubt the character of New York will change very much. Those older executives are going to tend to be risk takers and are going to have the wealth to minimize the risks in any case. There might be some cost cutting moves that are finally justified by these risks, but I believe it will be a marginal factor at best.
Indeed, the effectiveness of working remotely and the high costs of New York City are more likely to effect the middle class workers. If you can do your NYC job remotely, you've proven it by doing it remotely for 90 days and the costs of NYC are eating up your future retirement, then you have a strong incentive to push back with corporate memos calling everyone back to the office start being issued.
Its interesting that the chance of having had the virus is probably correlated somewhat with personality traits and maybe even political tendencies, so the resulting behaviour and spaces will reflect not just the people's immune status but their general preferences.
Enter your email address to subscribe to updates.
Email Address
Subscribe
Alex Tabarrok
 Email Alex
 Follow @atabarrok
Tyler Cowen
 Email Tyler
 Follow @tylercowen
Webmaster
 Report an issue"
