"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
Americans could soon be encouraged to wear face masks to stop the spread of coronavirus
The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) could soon urge Americans to wear face masks in public in another attempt to slow the coronavirus spread.
According to The Washington Post, CDC officials are currently considering a change to the official guidance that would encourage Americans to cover their faces during the coronavirus pandemic.
When the new measures are introduced, the CDC would make it clear that the public should not use medical masks such as surgical and N95 masks needed by hospitals – and are in short supply.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
A second official, according to the report, suggested that Americans will be told to use homemade fabric-based masks to cover their faces when outside.
Whilst even self-made fabric masks could reduce the risk that wearer would pass on the virus to others, existing CDC advice says that healthy people do need to mask their faces.
On Monday, Donald Trump told reporters at the White House that asking the public to wear masks was “certainly something we could discuss,” adding: “it could be something like that for a limited period of time.”
Scientists and experts have suggested that the rate of transmission of the virus could be reduced with widespread use of face coverings.
Thomas Inglesby, director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, pointed out that mask wearing has been seen as a social responsibility in East Asia during the outbreak, where authorities have seen fewer confirmed cases.
He tweeted: “Face masks are used widely by the public in places that have successfully managed their outbreaks, including Korea, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan.”
Mr Inglesby cautioned that all non-medical masks should be sourced for hospitals, and called on the CDC to issue guidelines on how to make non-medical fabric face masks at home.
Other medical professionals have warned that face mask use should not be encouraged.
Jeffrey Duchin, a senior health official in Seattle, told The Washington Post the state’s health department does not recommend that healthy individuals wear masks.
He explained: “It’s also possible that mask-wearing might increase the risk for infection if other recommendations (like hand washing and distancing) are less likely to be followed or if the mask is contaminated and touched.”
The Seattle official added that “well-designed” self-made masks that did not reduce the supply needed for healthcare staff “could potentially provide protection”.
No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
