"You are now logged in.
Forgot your password?
Create new account
Reason Roundup
Elizabeth Nolan Brown  | 3.31.2020 9:48 AM
As more states move to temporarily ban surgical abortions using COVID-19 as an excuse, federal judges have begun to block them. In three separate rulings yesterday, federal judges told state leaders that categorizing abortion as a non-essential medical procedure and forcing abortion clinic closures was not OK.
The rulings came in response to lawsuits filed after authorities in Ohio, Texas, and elsewhere started declaring that temporary surgical abortion bans were necessary to free up resources for fighting the new coronavirus.
The Texas ruling, from U.S. District Court Judge Lee Yeakel, temporarily suspends the state's order through April 13. In the interim, the court will consider whether to block the order for good (something the judge seems poised to do, going by what he wrote in this current ruling). ""Regarding a woman's right to a pre-fetal-viability abortion, the Supreme Court has spoken clearly. There can be no outright ban on such a procedure,"" the decision states.
""This court will not speculate on whether the Supreme Court included a silent 'except-in-a-national-emergency clause' in its previous writings on the issue,"" writes Yeakel. ""Only the Supreme Court may restrict the breadth of its rulings.""
Ohio's ban has also been blocked for at least two weeks, per a Monday ruling from U.S. District Court Judge Michael Barrett. The judge wrote that the state hadn't made a compelling case that stopping surgical abortions would ""result in any beneficial amount of net saving of PPE (personal protective equipment) in Ohio such that the net saving of PPE outweighs the harm of eliminating abortion.""
And a surgical abortion ban in Alabama has been suspended until at least April 6, when U.S. District Court Judge Myron Thompson is scheduled to hear arguments.
(More on the constitutionality considerations, from Eugene Volokh, here.)
Authorities in Alabama, Ohio, and Texas aren't the only ones attempting to use a public health crisis to clamp down on reproductive freedom. Iowa, Mississippi, and Oklahoma have seen similar orders outlawing surgical abortion procedures.
Groups are already suing over the bans in Oklahoma and Iowa. ""The state's singling out of abortion in this manner during the public health crisis is profoundly harmful to Iowa women, and can't be justified from a public health perspective,"" Rita Bettis Austen, the legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Iowa, said in a statement.
Meanwhile, leaders of more liberal states have been calling on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to allow remote prescribing of abortion pills.
""Netflix for 3-D guns."" Home-printed gun blueprint distributor Cody Wilson is again putting his plans online.
This is the ""third time he has released such files, but the first time he has abided by U.S. foreign export controls online, using what he said are digital verification tools to ensure legal file downloads,"" notes the Wall Street Journal. ""Mr. Wilson said he believed his release of the files would be 'impervious' to legal challenge and would help normalize the distribution of such material for easy download in the future. Mr. Wilson is offering access to the files for an annual fee of $50, characterizing his service as 'Netflix for 3-D guns.'""
More here.
Authoritarianism goes viral. In response to COVID-19, Hungry is suspending elections and instituting a host of other draconian measures for an indefinite amount of time.
Hungarian Parliament passes bill that gives PM Orbán unlimited power & proclaims:
- State of emergency w/o time limit- Rule by decree- Parliament suspended- No elections- Spreading fake news + rumors: up to 5 yrs in prison- Leaving quarantine: up to 8 yrs in prison#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/5ScZCbF4yv
— Balazs Csekö (@balazscseko) March 30, 2020

It's not the only one.
Arizona, Maryland, Virginia, and the District of Columbia all got new or expanded stay-at-home orders on Monday.
Violating the D.C. order could lead to 90 days in jail and a $5,000 fine, Mayor Muriel Bowser said yesterday. Violating Maryland's order could carry a penalty of up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine.
#BREAKING: Texas prisoners are suing for hand sanitizer, soap, and social distancing: pic.twitter.com/1Gea6lbcPJ
— Keri Blakinger (@keribla) March 30, 2020

In a letter earlier today to the Mayor, NYC's five DA's rejected calls for a broad release of Rikers' inmates, and urged the city to reassure the public that inmates would be adequately cared for. In this THREAD, Rikers Chief says he can't do that, because it's not true. https://t.co/sbSUMJZ1Gc
— David Menschel (@davidminpdx) March 31, 2020

I have been diagnosed with presumed coronavirus infection. My symptoms are mild. I am isolating myself at my home and following the guidance of the Office of Attending Physician.
My full statement is below. pic.twitter.com/9TgPXoy9dN
— Rep. Nydia Velazquez (@NydiaVelazquez) March 30, 2020

NEXT: How Techies Ignored the Bureaucrats and Helped the COVID-19 Response
Elizabeth Nolan Brown is a senior editor at Reason.
Show Comments (36)
Editor's Note: We invite comments and request that they be civil and on-topic. We do not moderate or assume any responsibility for comments, which are owned by the readers who post them. Comments do not represent the views of Reason.com or Reason Foundation. We reserve the right to delete any comment for any reason at any time. Report abuses.
Netflix for 3-D guns.
Who can afford the ammo for binging.
In response to COVID-19, Hungry is suspending elections and instituting a host of other draconian measures for an indefinite amount of time.
Wait until their stomachs stop growling.
Liz should make them a sandwich
They have all that cranberry sauce.  Time to invade Turkey!
Violating the D.C. order could lead to 90 days in jail and a $5,000 fine, Mayor Muriel Bowser said yesterday. Violating Maryland’s order could carry a penalty of up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine.
…somehow.
They will release rapists from jail but be sure you will be kept there for defying a direct governmental order.
Albuquerque, New Mexico, police were called to a man’s house for a welfare check and instead murdered him.
His welfare has been quite definitely determined.
As more states move to temporarily ban surgical abortions using COVID-19 as an excuse, federal judges have begun to block them. In three separate rulings yesterday, federal judges told state leaders that categorizing abortion as a non-essential medical procedure and forcing abortion clinic closures was not OK.
Over the weekend, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio warned that “synagogues” and “churches” that disobey his order to remain shut down may be closed permanently as punishment. One can’t help but notice that the good mayor conspicuously omitted one type of worship facility from this dire warning. But whether mosques are exempt or not, the bigger issue is that Bill de Blasio certainly does not have the authority to permanently close places of worship as a punitive measure for defying his commands. He has the word “mayor” in front of his name, not “sultan” or “king” or “supreme leader.” And the First Amendment still exists, even if he’d prefer to pretend otherwise.
“Had the Chinese authorities been open even three weeks sooner, a study by U.K’s University of Southampton assessed, the number of coronavirus cases could have been reduced by 95 percent and the world may well have been spared a pandemic,” notes Reason‘s Shikha Dalmia.
I guess the Chinese don’t own Reason or Dalmia.
Yet.
http://ace.mu.nu/archives/386599.php#386599
Woman Who Gave Deadly Dose of Fish Tank Cleaner to Husband — and Then Blamed it on Trump — Is Prolific Donor to Democrats and Liberal “Pro-Science” Causes
It would be premature and irresponsible to call this a premeditated murder but on the other hand this is definitely a premeditated murder.
This woman despised the Bad Orange Man but decided to take his advice and dose her husband? And then go on a Media Tour denouncing OrangeManBad as being a Bad Orange Man?
How much you wanna bet that a little bit of investigation would disclose the couple fought a lot?
Too bad more Lefties are not willing to die for their stupid cause.
I know I took all sorts of health advice from Obama.
Why not, you didn’t like your doctor.  Obama said so.
Wired is launching a new series of oral histories of coronavirus patients and health care providers in their own words…
Anecdotes are pretty much all we have to rely on at this point.
In Twitter form.
A much-hyped strike of Amazon warehouse workers only yielded around 15 to 50 participants.
Arrest them for gathering more than 5 people.
“- Spreading fake news + rumors: up to 5 yrs in prison ”
So, no more social media? Will they go after the rich bosses? US “news” reports are now out the window, no doubt.
I’m getting the popcorn for the first Presidential debate, should they happen, when VeggieBiden has to defend bringing the world to the US and paying for their healthcare a few months after a pandemic had everyone scared the hospitals would be overwhelmed by people already here.
https://townhall.com/tipsheet/mattvespa/2019/06/29/fiasco-ny-post-cover-captures-the-first-democratic-debates-with-one-solid-headli-n2549170
Oh, and a large swath of these clowns want to give illegal aliens health insurance benefits. It’s a total crazytown. It was really a massive in-kind contribution to the Donald Trump 2020 campaign. All it did was show Democrats are a) full-blown socialists, b) out of touch, c) insane, and d) once again giving the middle finger to Independent, moderate, and blue-collar voters. The whole circus was a free stuff buffet; free college, free health care—and plans on how to pay for it. No real plans to pay for the trillions of dollars that all of this will cost. We’re going to foot this huge bill, even for those who came here illegally? This will not sit well with independent voters.
https://twitter.com/tomselliott/status/1244367217912881160
Pelosi, touring San Fran’s Chinatown Feb. 24: “We do want to say to people, come to Chinatown, here we are … come join us”
Violating the D.C. order could lead to 90 days in jail and a $5,000 fine, Mayor Muriel Bowser said yesterday.
It’s fascinating to watch all of the one-upmanship about who can be the bigger Strongman.  Hooray for Dictatorships!
I’m sure there will be no negative consequences to such drastic authoritarian measures.
Bullets toward cops will be flying soon when they keep up this tyrannical bullshit.
Another day of martial law in state-controlled Soviet America, another day of JSlave lauding authoritarianism and pretending that he’s the world’s foremost epidemiologist.
COVID-19 relief payments from the federal government will be going out in three weeks, the IRS said.
The feds and Boeing are hoping there will be fewer people alive by then to take any share of the pie.
After bungling multiple attempts at live streaming Deep Thoughts with Creepy Uncle Joe, Joe decides he was made for podcasts.
https://twitchy.com/brettt-3136/2020/03/30/listen-fat-tech-maven-joe-biden-launches-new-podcast-called-heres-the-deal-to-be-voice-of-clarity/
I dub his podcast Veggie Tales.
AGE DEATH RATE (all cases) 80+ years old 14.8% 70-79 years old 8.0% 60-69 years old 3.6% 50-59 years old 1.3% 40-49 years old 0.4% 30-39 years old 0.2% 20-29 years old 0.2% 10-19 years old 0.2% 0-9 years old no fatalities
Johns Hopkins ABX Guide Coronavirus COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2)
Let’s see the “Party of science” argue against these numbers.
Media seems to have 2 functions. Blame trump for every action he takes, even if they asked him to do it…. and self promotion.
https://pjmedia.com/trending/lets-remember-the-real-victims-of-the-coronavirus-mildly-inconvenienced-journalists/
Los Angeles won’t close gun shops, after all.
They’ll backdoor their way out of the 2A yet.
https://humanevents.com/2020/03/30/seize-the-endowments/
A number of elite American universities are finding themselves in hot water for their miserly behavior in response to the coronavirus. Harvard University is taking well-deserved heat for laying off its food service workers while sitting on a $40 billion endowment. Yale University, too, has been twisting in the wind; when New Haven mayor Justin Elicker asked the university to provide temporary housing to the city’s firefighters and police officers, the university initially refused. Then, after taking a public relations and social media beating, Yale relented, grudgingly agreeing to allow city officials to stay in the university’s vacant dormitory housing.  That seems like the least a university with a $30 billion endowment could do.
If universities feel no obligation to care about the economic health of the broader community, it’s time for the broader community—and for conservatives in particular—to stop caring about the fiscal condition of the universities. College tuition has skyrocketed in recent years, immiserating massive numbers of young people with enormous student debt. Meanwhile, the universities themselves grow more and more hostile to conservatives every year.
It’s time to hit the universities where it hurts.
“Seize the Endowments” is a clarion call, a statement of intent. It dishonors the university system: our government “seizes” assets that were fraudulently acquired to compensate the victims of that fraud. And it places the blame for the student debt crisis where it ultimately belongs: on the universities that are exploiting young people and immiserating them in debt while paying nothing in taxes and bloating their administrative incomes.
“Seize the Endowments” also indicates that we are not normal conservatives, who leave bad actors alone, hoping the free market will work things out. Instead, we are willing to dramatically reshape these institutions and wield government power aggressively against them. We will not passively watch as they defraud our children while attacking our voters.
Media accuses trump of attacking nurses and doctors for stealing masks and sanitizer, wondering how the hell he could be so cruel to accuse them of such.  Even though they wrote stories on the incidents just a few weeks prior.
https://www.breitbart.com/the-media/2020/03/30/reports-mask-theft-not-controversial-trump-brought-up/
…and urged the city to reassure the public that inmates would be adequately cared for. In this THREAD, Rikers Chief says he can’t do that, because it’s not true.
The veracity of the claim is irrelevant to prosecutors. Now and forever.
Some outlets openly admitting the go sentimental powers we are seeing is a trial run for climate change policy.
https://www.nbcnews.com/think/opinion/coronavirus-climate-change-pandemic-fire-drill-our-planet-s-future-ncna1169991
the go sentimental powers
Nice band name.
Hungarian Parliament passes bill that gives PM Orbán unlimited power…
What idiot voted Parliament unlimited power?
Violating the D.C. order could lead to 90 days in jail and a $5,000 fine, Mayor Muriel Bowser said yesterday. Violating Maryland’s order could carry a penalty of up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine.
“Round up the usual suspects!”
In the theme of how terrible the media is…
Reporters mock my pillow for manufacturing 50k masks a day. Why?  Because fuck trump that’s why.
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/news/media-pundits-mock-mypillow-ceo-after-announcement-on-companys-efforts-to-combat-coronavirus
Please log in to post comments
Elizabeth Nolan Brown  | 3.31.2020 9:48 AM
Andrea O'Sullivan  | 3.31.2020 8:30 AM
Josh Blackman  | 3.31.2020 8:00 AM
Josh Blackman  | 3.31.2020 7:00 AM
Jacob Sullum  | 3.31.2020 7:00 AM
Coronavirus
That's a huge concern as forecasters expect the U.S. unemployment rate in the months to come to surpass that seen during the depths of the Great Depression.
J.D. Tuccille  | 3.27.2020 11:10 AM
Joe Biden
So far, it's been silence from The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN, and others.
Robby Soave  | 3.30.2020 1:50 PM
Coronavirus
The Scandinavian country is betting against draconian restrictions and in favor of the free movement of people and goods.
Johan Norberg  | 3.25.2020 4:20 PM
Coronavirus
The agency concludes that the possible benefits outweigh the risks.
Ronald Bailey  | 3.30.2020 4:00 PM
Joe Biden
A former staffer says he sexually assaulted her in 1993.
Robby Soave  | 3.26.2020 3:18 PM
© Reason Foundation | Privacy Policy | Terms Of Use"
