"GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X
Trending:
Three more people have died of the novel coronavirus in Marin, bringing the total to four, the county said Monday as public health officials announced that stay-at-home rules will be extended until May 1.
The deaths confirmed Monday included two men in their 60s and a woman in her 90s. The county reported Friday that the first person to contract the coronavirus in Marin, a man in his 70s, was also the first to die of COVID-19.
In total, 98 Marin residents have tested positive for the virus and 14 have been hospitalized, with five new confirmed cases reported Monday. That follows a 26% jump in cases on Sunday, when 19 new infections were reported.
Public health officials said the spike in cases over the weekend came as no surprise. The ability for health workers in Marin to test for the virus has improved, said Dr. Lisa Santora, the county’s deputy public health officer. Widespread testing, however, is still not available, she cautioned. By Monday, the county had tested 716 people.
“I still think the numbers we’re seeing are actually underestimates,” said Santora, who told the county Board of Supervisors last week that she believes more than 1% of the county’s population — about 3,000 Marin residents — is likely infected.
Officials haven’t seen infections spike in any one city or town in Marin. Santora said the county plans to notify residents if the number of cases surpasses 10 in one neighborhood, which hasn’t yet been the case.
Marin was among seven Bay Area jurisdictions on Monday that announced shelter-in-place rules would be in place for another month. In addition to Marin, those jurisdictions included Alameda, Contra Costa, San Mateo, Santa Clara and San Francisco counties and the city of Berkeley, which has its own public health department.

The shelter-in-place orders, which took effect in each of those jurisdictions on March 16, were initially set to last three weeks.
“We have said an extension might be expected as we work together to slow the spread of the COVID-19 disease,” a joint statement from the seven jurisdictions said, noting that more details would be announced by Wednesday.
Even though California is already under a blanket shelter-in-place order under the direction of Gov. Gavin Newsom, local jurisdictions are allowed to have more restrictive rules than the state. Revisions include proposed modifications to allowable outdoor activities and classifications of non-essential businesses.
Newsom’s statewide order is in effect “until further notice,” and he has suggested people should not expect it to lift any time soon.
“It’s bought us time to prepare,” Newsom said Monday. “But I want to make this point. When we see a tripling of the ICU beds, when you see a doubling of the hospitalizations just over a four-day period, that’s a point of not just of consideration, it’s a point of obvious concern.”
Bay Area News Group contributed to this report.
Get Morning Report and other email newsletters
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you accept our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy.
OK"
