"Published: Mar 31, 2020 9:53 a.m. ET
Investors who rely on income are already seeing companies reduce or eliminate dividend payouts as the coronavirus spreads
By
The deadly coronavirus is taking a toll on financial markets around the world. Stock-price declines have been swift and relentless.
Now there is intense pressure for companies to shore up cash reserves, not only by reducing investment and suspending share buybacks, but by cutting dividend payouts.
Jefferies global equity strategist Sean Darby has listed 60 companies in the S&P 500 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    SPX, +0.09%

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         that he and his colleagues think are “susceptible to a dividend cut.”
Here’s the entire list, followed by explanations and more background from Darby:
You can click on the tickers for more about each company.
You may have to scroll to see all the data.
The table is sorted by declining dividend coverage ratio, which was calculated by the Jefferies analysts by dividing the firm’s estimated earnings for the companies over the next 12 months by the expected dividend payouts based on the current dividend rates. A higher coverage ratio is better. However, a high ratio of net debt to equity is of concern. The net-debt-to-equity ratio was calculated by subtracting cash from debt and dividing by equity.
When asked in an email why he used earnings instead of free cash flow for the dividend coverage ratio, Darby replied: “Many companies will smooth dividend payments, so if we look at earnings measures, we can get an idea of how confident they are about future payments.”
One company that would have made Darby’s list was Macy’s 

                            
                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                  
                                    M, -2.70%.

                            
                                  
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                         However, the retailer suspended its dividend March 20 after temporarily closing all of its stores March 17. Macy’s placed the “majority” of its employees on furlough this week.
The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act was signed into law by President Trump on March 27. Companies that borrow from the federal government will be unable to pay dividends for a year after the loans have been repaid in full.
Of course, companies that don’t receive federal assistance will be able to continue paying dividends and even buying back shares. But in this new climate, management teams have to be careful.
“As companies become more aware that they are running their businesses for the bond holders (and credit markets) rather than for the equity investors, their focus will turn to managing cash rather than earnings,” Darby wrote in his report March 30.
He explained that debt issuers with sub-investment-grade ratings (below BBB) appeared not to have access to the Federal Reserve’s Primary Market Corporate Credit Facility (PMCCF) or its Secondary Market Corporate Credit Facility (SMCCF), which were established March 23.
Darby went further, pointing out that the ratings firms might cut their ratings for BBB-rated bond issuers, making them likely to lose access to those programs.
So there are all sorts of reasons for companies to think ahead and shore up cash any way they can, by suspending share buybacks, cutting capital expenditures and cutting or suspending dividends.
In a report listing large-cap stocks with “safe dividends,” Goldman Sachs analyst Cole Hunter predicted dividends for the S&P 500 would decline by 25% in 2020.
Philip van Doorn covers various investment and industry topics.  He has previously worked as a senior analyst at TheStreet.com. He also has experience in community banking and as a credit analyst at the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.
Join the conversation
Copyright © 2020 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.
By using this site you agree to the
Subscriber Agreement & Terms of Use Updated 03/26/2020
Privacy Notice and 
            Cookie Notice.
Do Not Sell My Personal Information.
Intraday Data provided by FACTSET and subject to terms of use.
          Historical and current end-of-day data provided by FACTSET.
          All quotes are in local exchange time.
          Real-time last sale data for U.S. stock quotes reflect trades reported through Nasdaq only.
          Intraday data delayed at least 15 minutes or per exchange requirements."
