"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
Bishop tells followers to cover themselves with 'anointed oil' during pandemic
A church has been accused of exploiting the public by selling so-called “plague protection” kits, consisting of oil and red yarn, which claim to stop people from being infected with coronavirus.
Bishop Climate Ministries, part of the Kingdom Church in Camberwell, London, has claimed followers can protect themselves during the Covid-19 pandemic by purchasing the £91 kit and covering themselves in the oil.
“It is by faith that you can be saved from the Coronavirus pandemic by covering yourself with the Divine Plague Protection Oil and wearing the Scarlet Yarn on your body,” a post by Bishop Climate Irungu Wiseman said.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
This goes against advice from medical and scientific experts who have said members of the public should wash their hands regularly and avoid social contact with people outside of their home to slow the spread of the virus.
Another page on the group’s website suggested followers could pay up to £910 for “sacrificial seed of divine protection” for their family.
In a post published on 21 March, Bishop Climate claimed he had been “instructed” by the Lord to prepare an oil “mixed with cedar wood, hyssop, and prayer” for the pandemic.
“As you use this oil, along with a special scarlet yarn, every coronavirus and any other deadly thing will pass over you,” he said.
The bishop also said the products had “worked before” and would work again, despite providing no scientific or medical evidence for the claim.
Southwark Council has confirmed it is investigating the church over the products.
“It is wrong for anyone to exploit people’s fears at this time of high anxiety and we encourage people to report any issues like this to London Trading Standards,” councillor Victoria Mills said in a statement.
“This particular issue is already under investigation by our teams.
No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
“There are many scams relating to Covid-19 and the council will be working hard to support consumers to be on guard for bogus test kits, cures and treatments and other financial scams.”
The council has also urged members of the public to only take medical advice from trusted sources, such as the NHS and the Department of Health and Social Care.
The Independent has contacted the church for comment on the claims made about its products.
Bishop Climate Ministries also has a number of other “anointed oils” on sale which claim to be able to help followers with legal problems, marital issues, and other general health issues.
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
