"Utah's largest medical provider is cutting the salaries of physicians and nurse practitioners, claiming they need to be flexible to the ""changing needs"" created by the coronavirus pandemic.
Intermountain Healthcare told its staff in an email that pay cuts were necessary as the company wasn't bringing in as much revenue due to canceled appointments and nonessential and elective surgeries being postponed.
It was not clear how many of Intermountain Healthcare's 2,400 physicians and advanced practitioners would be affected by the changes. The company describes itself as the largest healthcare provider in the Intermountain West, primarily serving Utah, southern Idaho and southern Nevada.
One advanced practice provider, who did not want to be named, told The Salt Lake Tribune the cuts were a ""slap in the face"" for healthcare workers on the frontlines of the pandemic.
""You're putting your life on the line, and you're being possibly exposed,"" she told the newspaper.
""Now they're reducing pay with the people who are on the front lines. It's just a slap in the face.""
The company is also not compensating those working directly with coronavirus patients with hazard pay, which one ICU nurse told the newspaper was ""absolutely demoralizing.""
The pay cuts were revealed to staff in an email that included a link to a video posted by Intermountain Healthcare on YouTube. In the video, Dr. Mark Briesacher, the chief physician executive at Intermountain Healthcare, said: ""This is a critical time for physicians to be flexible to the changing needs created by COVID-19.""
Dr. Briesacher explained that while some physicians are experiencing ""extremely high demand"" during the pandemic, others have seen a reduction in work by between 30 and 50 percent.
""Our priority is to help you continue to work and have a stable income,"" he added. ""We're doing that through temporary measures for redeployment and compensation. This will help us meet the needs of our patients, as well as reduce uncertainty for you and your families.""
Daron Cowley, a spokesman for Intermountain Healthcare, told Newsweek that no pay cuts have yet taken place, but a ""limited"" number of physicians and advanced practice providers who experience ""significant reductions to their workload"" may have their compensation adjusted from June.
""This is a dynamic and challenging environment that changes each day. We are continuously assessing the situation and will revisit our plans regularly,"" he said.
Cowley added that some employees who are reassigned to areas with high demand will continue to be paid at their current rate. Those who can't be moved will be paid up to four weeks for missed time.
""Intermountain is doing everything possible to keep employees working. One way we're doing this is through redeployment of employees to areas of need,"" he said.
""If an employee is redeployed to another role, they'll continue to be paid at their current rate. If Intermountain is unable to redeploy an employee to another role, we will provide compensation for work missed due to COVID-19. Compensation of up to four weeks will be paid.""
He added that employees can also use their accumulated paid time off to cover other missed work after the four weeks. ""If they use all of their PTO, they can go into a negative PTO balance of up to 80 hours. Benefits will not change,"" he added.
The news comes as the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, rose to 806 on Monday, according to the Utah Department of Health. Four deaths have been reported in the state.
This infographic, provided by Statista, shows the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases by state in the U.S. as of March 31.
World Health Organization advice for avoiding spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Hygiene advice
Medical advice
Mask and glove usage
Weekly magazine,
delivered  Daily Newsletter
 Website access
Weekly magazine,
delivered  Daily Newsletter
 Website access
Free access to 40+
digital editions  Website
access  Daily Newsletter
© 2020 Newsweek"
