"Menu
Illustration: Sarah Grillo/Axios
President Trump and two Texas oil producers are launching new efforts to temper the stunning supply-demand imbalance and price collapse that's inflicting deep financial wounds in the U.S. industry.
Driving the news: Shale producers Pioneer Natural Resources and Parsley Energy have formally asked Texas regulators to take the extraordinary step of imposing mandatory production curbs to help steady the ship.
Separately, Trump talked about oil markets yesterday with Russian President Vladimir Putin, whose country is battling Saudi Arabia for market share after their supply management pact collapsed weeks ago.
Yes, but: Prices regained some ground on word of the Trump-Putin talks, Reuters notes. But don't expect a magic fix.
What they're saying: Despite the flurry of activity, the prospects for diplomatic or U.S. policy changes that significantly staunch the financial bleeding are quite limited, especially as the Saudis press ahead with supply increases.
Plus, even relatively modest policy options face hurdles. One example is the new U.S. stabilization package, which cut proposed funding to buy 77 million barrels of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
The big picture: Via International Oil Daily, Chris Weafer, CEO of Moscow-based Macro-Advisory, said that Trump's call to Putin ""shows how badly the price crash is hitting U.S. shale producers.""
A member of the powerful Texas Railroad Commission, Ryan Sitton, and Pioneer CEO Scott Sheffield tell her that a (digital) hearing is likely next month on the renewed push for production limits.
Where it stands: Sheffield said his company and others received requests late last week from pipeline companies to shut in production, and more broadly says that ""I’m worried about the industry being totally decimated.""
But, but, but: The odds of quotas happening appear long. Commission chairman Wayne Christian has expressed deep skepticism about the idea without rejecting it outright. And the powerful American Petroleum Institute is opposed too.
Of note: A note from IHS Markit estimates that 10 million barrels per day of global production ""will be cut or shut-in from April to June 2020 as oil storage fills up and output from financially strapped companies begins to fall.""
Go deeper: Imagining a new energy normal after coronavirus
Workers extracting oil from oil wells in the Permian Basin in Midland, Texas. Photo: Benjamin Lowy/Getty Images
Texas oil regulators are likely to hold a hearing in April on whether to take the historic step to curb the state’s oil production amid a global market collapse fueled by the coronavirus.
Driving the news: Ryan Sitton, one of three commissioners of the Texas Railroad Commission, which oversees state oil production, told Axios that a hearing will likely be held soon in response to a renewed request earlier Monday from two oil companies to limit production as one way to stem the steep slide in global oil prices.
Illustration: Eniola Odetunde/Axios
The potential for new U.S. responses to the oil price collapse has seemingly grown — enough to send prices back upward, even though it's all inchoate and fluid right now.
Driving the news: President Trump says he's eyeing some kind of intervention in the oil price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia, telling reporters yesterday that he would get involved ""at the appropriate time.""
Trump and Putin at the G20 in Osaka in 2019. Photo: Mikhail Svetlov/Getty Images
President Trump said on ""Fox & Friends"" Monday morning that he's planned to speak with Russian President Vladimir Putin about the Russia-Saudi rupture on oil policy that's helping to push prices lower.
What he's saying: ""I’m talking to him about that among other things, because you know, getting along with Russia is a good thing,"" Trump said in a response to a question about pain in the oil-and-gas industry."
