"We use cookies to improve our service for you. You can find more information in our data protection declaration.
A record number of people have died in the past 24 hours in Spain. Germany's disease control agency warns the pandemic is far from over. Follow DW for the latest.


Updates in Universal Coordinated Time (UTC/GMT)
13:42 American Airlines says it will apply for a financial aid package from the US government and it expects to receive $12 billion (€11 billion) as a result. The airline industry is one of the sectors hardest hit by the pandemic, with airlines across the United States suspending most transatlantic flights and a large number of domestic routes. The US Congress has assigned $50 billion in aid for the airline industry as part of its $2.2 trillion coronavirus economic relief bill approved last week.
Meanwhile, British Airways is suspending all flight’s from London’s Gatwick Airport for the foreseeable future. International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG), the owner of British Airways and Iberia, has said it would reduce its flying capacity by at least 75% in April and May.
13:40 German zoos are seeking €100 million ($110 million) in aid due, the Association of Zoological Gardens has revealed.
""Unlike other facilities, we cannot just shut down our operations — our animals have to keep being fed and looked after,"" association head and Leipzig zoo director Jörg Junhold wrote in a letter to Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Junhold said zoos are currently working without incomes, but still have to consider expenses. Large zoos are working on the basis of a weekly loss of some €500,000 due to the crisis, according to the Berlin-based association.
The Association of Zoological Gardens represents 56 zoos across Germany that care for and breed more than 180,000 vertebrate animals, many of which are endangered species.
13:29 Berlin has opened its first hostel for homeless people. The hostel provides 200 beds for use by any person living on the streets of Berlin, regardless of nationality, spokesman for Berlin Social Services Stefan Strauß said Tuesday. There is also a separate floor with 20 spots reserved specifically for women.
""When the coronavirus infection reaches this community, there is the risk of a catastrophy that I don’t even want to describe,"" said Werena Rosenke, director of Wohnungslosenhilfe, a German NGO that helps the homeless.
She added that many homeless people are at higher risk of catching the virus due to pre-existing medical conditions. Recent federal figures estimate that there are around 678,000 homeless people in Germany.
On December 31, 2019, China notifies the World Health Organization of a string of respiratory infections in the city of Wuhan, home to some 11 million people. The root virus is unknown and disease experts around the world begin working to identify it. The strain is traced to a seafood market in the city, which is quickly shut down. Some 40 people are initially reported to be infected.
On January 11, China announces the first death from the coronavirus — a 61-year-old man, who had shopped at the Wuhan market, dies from complications with pneumonia. Like SARS and the common cold, scientists identified that the new virus is in the coronavirus family. It is temporarily named 2019-nCoV. Symptoms include fever, coughing, difficulty breathing, and pneumonia.
In the following days, countries such as Thailand and Japan begin to report cases of infections in people who had visited the same Wuhan market. In China, a second fatality is confirmed in the city. By January 20, three people have died in China and more than 200 are infected.
China places Wuhan on quarantine on January 23 in an attempt to limit the spread of the virus. Transportation is suspended and workers attempt to quickly build a new hospital to treat infected patients, which total over 830 by January 24, as the death toll climbs to 26. Officials eventually extend the lockdown to 13 other cities, affecting at least 36 million people.
More and more cases are confirmed outside of China, including in South Korea, the US, Nepal, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Taiwan. As the number of infections rises, the World Health Organization on January 23 determines that it's ""too early"" to declare a global public health emergency.
On January 24, French authorities confirm three cases of the new coronavirus within its borders, marking the disease's first appearance in Europe. Hours later, Australia confirms four people have been infected with the respiratory virus.
On January 27, Germany announces its first known case of the virus — a 33-year-old in Bavaria who contracted it during a workplace training with a visiting Chinese colleague. He is put under quarantine and observation at a Munich hospital. The following day, three of his colleagues are confirmed infected. The death toll in China reaches 132, with around 6,000 infected worldwide.
On January 30, the UN's World Health Organization (WHO) declares coronavirus a public health emergency of international concern in a bid to protect countries with ""weaker health systems."" However, WHO Secretary-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus does not recommend trade and travel restrictions, saying these would be ""an unnecessary disruption.""
The first death linked to the novel coronavirus outside of China is reported in the Philippines on February 2. A 44-year-old Chinese man had traveled from Wuhan to Manila before falling ill and being taken to hospital, where he later died of pneumonia.
Also on February 3, the cruise ship Diamond Princess is quarantined off Yokohama in Japan after cases of the new coronavirus were found on board. As of February 17, the number of people infected has grown to more than 450, the largest cluster of cases outside of China. Several of the 3,700 passengers and crew onboard the ship are being or have been flown back to their home countries.
Cases in Italy rise dramatically, with 77 deaths and thousands of confirmed cases by March 3. Many countries instigate travel restrictions to northern Italy and tourist numbers plummet. On March 8, the Italian government put the entire Lombardy region into quarantine, affecting 16 million people. March 10 sees 168 fatalities in Italy, the highest in a single day.
European and US stock markets slump on March 6, leading to the worst week since the 2008 financial crisis. The effect on global business has been significant, with many companies reporting losses and the tourism industry and airlines badly hit. The EU pledge €7.5 billion ($8.4 billion) on March 10 in an investment fund to try to stop the Eurozone falling into a recession.
As worldwide cases top 127,000 and deaths pass 4,700, the World Health Organization designates the global outbreak as a ""pandemic"" on March 11. US President Donald Trump announces a travel restriction on people coming from the Schengen Zone in Europe, annoying the EU. German Chancellor Angela Merkel announces that in Germany, 70% of the population could get the virus.
On March 14, Spain joins Italy in imposing a near-total nationwide lockdown to prevent the virus spreading. The population of 46 million is told not to leave their homes unless for essential tasks. In France, cafés, restaurants and non-essential shops are closed as of March 15. Many public events in Germany are cancelled and schools close.
As of March 15, many countries impose strict travel bans or restrictions in an attempt to stop the spread of Covid-19. For example, New Zealand and Australia require all international passengers to self-isolate for 14 days after arrival in the country. The US extends a European travel ban to include the United Kingdom and Ireland.
In a landmark televised address German Chancellor Angela Merkel announces far-reaching restrictions on everyday life on March 22, banning meetings between more than two people not from the same household outside of the workplace. The country has a surprisingly low death rate, a phenomenon attributed to a high level of testing, and a high number of intensive care beds.
On March 23rd Britain becomes the latest country to impose restrictions on personal freedoms, with people only allowed to leave their homes in a limited number of circumstances. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is diagnosed with the viruson March 27, as well as heir to the throne Prince Charles on March 25. Meanwhile, there are complaints that not everyone is taking social distancing seriously.
On March 27 the US overtakes China in terms of the number of people infected, making it the country with the most cases of COVID-19. This came as President Donald Trump claimed that the nation would get back to work ""pretty quickly."" At the same time, it emerged that more than 3 million Americans had lost their jobs due to the pandemic. New York is worst-hit, with a hospital ship sent to help out.
Spain also overtakes China in the number of COVID-19 cases on March 30, as the government toughens the severity of its lockdown. All non-essential activities are halted. Only Italy has a higher death toll than Spain. Most affected is the capital, Madrid. With funeral services overwhelmed, officials turn the Palacio de Hielo ice skating rink into a temporary morgue.
Author: Richard Connor
12:45 Soccer clubs in Germany’s Bundesliga have agreed that the suspension of the season should be extended until April 30.  The German Football League (DFL) stopped both league competitions on March 13. All 36 clubs in both the top flight and second tier of German football accepted the measure after a video conference meeting. With nine rounds of matches left in the Bundesliga, issues such as the league title and relegation are still to be decided.
Playing games behind closed doors once restrictions are partially lifted is considered a likely option.
12:39 Spain's Health Ministry has reported 849 coronavirus-related deaths over a 24-hour period, a record high for the Iberian nation. It is the fourth consecutive day that Spain has recorded over 800 deaths.
The country has registered almost 100,000 cases overall after some 9,000 people were diagnosed with coronavirus in the past 24 hours.
COVID-19 has now claimed the lives of 8,189 people, forcing the Spanish capital of Madrid to open a second temporary morgue. Last week an ice rink was also being used as a morgue but a second temporary resting place was deemed necessary after the rink became overwhelmed.
11:42 The daily report released by China’s National Health Commission will include the details about asymptomatic coronavirus patients for the first time, from Wednesday, said Chang Jile, a commission official. The decision follows the first rise in mainland infections in five days, and heightened fears that people could be spreading the virus unknowingly.
11:07 Italy held a minute of silence and flew flags at half mast on Tuesday to mourn the 11,591 deceased victims of the coronavirus pandemic.
The Mediterranean nation has recorded nearly a third of all deaths related to the pandemic worldwide. It marks the first time the country has seen so many deaths from a single disaster since World War II.
The virus ""is an injury that hurt the whole country,"" Rome mayor Virginia Raggi said after observing the minute of silence at noon. ""Together, we will get through this,"" she said.
Vatican City also flew its yellow-and-white flags at half mast on Tuesday. Italy has over 100,000 reported cases of coronavirus, and has been under a lockdown for the past three weeks. The restrictions imposed are set to last until at least mid-April.
10:18 Ethiopia on Tuesday said it would restore phone and internet service to a restive portion of the country’s west, over fears that the monthslong shutdown was keeping millions from accessing information about the coronavirus pandemic.
Communications were cut in the area known as Wollega, from early January, following conflicts with a rebel group.
The move was largely a response to pressure put on the Ethiopian government to lift the blackout, as the east African country battles its first wave of coronavirus.
""Access to timely and accurate information is essential in a time of crisis, especially as Ethiopia simply does not have the infrastructure to cope with a coronavirus outbreak,"" Human Rights Watch (HRW) said in a statement on March 20, adding that the blackout was ""disrupting life-saving services.""
10:12 France, Germany and the United Kingdom have delivered medical supplies to Iran in the first transaction under Instex, a mechanism set up to bypass American sanctions on Tehran, the German Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.
""France, Germany and the United Kingdom confirm that Instex has successfully concluded its first transaction, facilitating the export of medical goods from Europe to Iran. These goods are now in Iran,"" the ministry said in a statement.
Iran has been the Middle Eastern country most heavily hit by the coronavirus outbreak, with over 40,000 reported cases and almost 3,000 deaths. The country’s efforts to tackle the pandemic have been made more difficult by US sanctions, which prevent it from accessing essential medical supplies.
09:51 A 12-year-old girl in Belgium has died of COVID-19, health officials said on Tuesday. Such a fatality in a person of that age is a ""very rare occurrence,"" said government spokesman Dr. Emmanuel Andre. The fatality marked the first death of a child due to coronavirus in Belgium. The country currently has almost 12,000 reported cases, and a death toll of 513.
09:33 In football, lower-league clubs are facing an uncertain financial future, with no games being played and no fans in stadiums. So, some of them have come up with some creative ideas in this crisis. Click through our picture gallery here:
Fourth-division Lokomotive Leipzig have called on fans to ""fill the place up, people!"" and break an attendance record by purchasing tickets for a match against ""the invisible opponent"" for just one euro each. ""Lok"" are aiming to break their unofficial record attendance of 120,000 for a European Cup Winners’ Cup semifinal against Bordeaux in 1987. They’ve already sold over 90,000 tickets ...
Across town in the Leipzig suburb of Leutzsch, Chemie Leipzig, also of division four, are raising much-needed cash by selling various different fundraising packages, from certificates and scarves to stadium tours and advertising. The club have already sold almost 2,000 packages and raised over €115,000 as they aim to show that the coronavirus ""won't rattle a Leutzscher!""
Rot-Weiss Essen were German champions in 1955 and made it to the DFB Pokal final as recently as 1994, but they now play their football in division four. In order to raise money during the current crisis, RWE having been selling tickets and other bits and bobs for a match against ""FC Corona."" They've already sold 3,200 tickets, 6,500 beers and almost 2,700 hotdogs, raising over €100,000.
Another fallen German giant of days gone buy, Alemannia Aachen are selling ""Golden Tickets"" to help see them through a difficult period. Priced at €10, the tickets will entitle fans to a free drink or snack at a home game once the football gets back underway. So far, the fourth-division side have sold 2,470 Golden Tickets, raising almost €25,000.
While government ministers have been reassuring people that there is no need to panic buy (""hamstering"" as it's known in German) during the current crisis, supporters of third-division Hansa Rostock have taken the opposite approach. The hardcore ""Suptras"" have called on fellow fans to ""Hamster for Hansa!"" and buy as much as they can from the club shop. We doubt they sell toilet roll, though ...
Fourth-division Energie Cottbus are aiming to ""strengthen their immune system"" by selling ""antibodies"" to combat the coronavirus. The virus-fighting proteins cost €19.66 each, a nod to the year of the club's foundation, and will provide ""desire, identification, support and solidarity"" - the medicines the club says it needs. So far, 550 antibodies have been sold, raising almost €11,000.
After their game against Rot-Weiss Essen, ""FC Corona"" will head to Berlin to face perennial former East German champions BFC Dynamo, now also of division four. In addition to tickets, and in typically no-nonsense Dynamo style, BFC are also selling virtual peppermint schnapps and, for the ultras, ""virtual pyro."" Should be some party ...
Author: Matt Ford
09:27 Taiwan took some of the earliest action against the coronavirus outbreak, and was more prepared for the pandemic due to the island nation’s experience tackling the SARS outbreak in 2003, according to one Taiwanese health expert.
""We learned our lessons from the SARS outbreak, where doctors and nurses died while taking care of SARS patients. So the whole of society has been on high alert for the past few years, just to be ready for the next attack of new, emerging diseases,"" Chan Chang-Chuan, Dean of the College of Public Health at the National Taiwan University told DW.
Chan also slammed the WHO for what he says was a slow response to the coronavirus outbreak, and its exclusion of Taiwan from membership.
""The WHO has made several mistakes in delaying the claim of [this being a] pandemic,"" he said.
Had the WHO included Taiwan, the two could have collaborated to implement more effective solutions at an earlier stage in the pandemic. You can watch the interview via this tweet here:
""If they had included Taiwan in the formal discussions, some of our successful measures could have been adopted by some other countries that are suffering now,"" Chan said. ""By excluding Taiwan, the WHO did not do well for the rest of the world. Do you think politics won out here over global health?""
While China sees Taiwan as a breakaway province, Taiwan sees itself as a separate, sovereign nation. It is recognized by just 14 of 193 United Nations member states.
08:58 The Robert Koch Institute (RKI), Germany’s health research organization, lists the total number of cases in the country as 61,913, while Johns Hopkins University (JHU) says the total number of cases is 66,885. Their reported death rates also differ, with a current death toll of 583 listed by RKI, and JHU suggesting a toll of 645 as of Tuesday.
The disparity in case and death counts are due to the organizations' different methods of collecting data. JHU researchers combine data from the World Health Organization, national authorities, local media and some Twitter accounts to glean their figures.
Meanwhile, the RKI compiles its numbers in accordance with the Infection Protection Act, meaning that they only publish figures that have been reported to the institute by official health authorities. Some of those figures may also not be officially reported until the next working day, so RKI’s case and death counts are often lower than those JHU reports.
08:30 ""The pandemic [in Germany] is continuing and will carry on for weeks and months,"" said Lothar Wieler, the head of the Robert Koch Institute. In particular, containment measures to protect particularly vulnerable persons and to expand healthcare capacity will also have to continue.
He added that he is optimistic that the measures would be effective, and that he expects ""tangible figures"" on the impact of the measures to be available by Easter. The death rate in Germany is currently very low, at just 0.8%, however, he believes that that rate will increase.
""I would like to ask all people to take this disease seriously,"" he said, as one study showed that only 41% of Germans believe that COVID-19 is dangerous.
08:22 Official Malaysian government advice, urging women to dress up at home, stop ""nagging"" and wear makeup while under lockdown has drawn widespread criticism. Malaysia’s Women’s Affairs Ministry issued the ""advice"" in a series of online posters with the hashtag #WomenPreventCOVID19.
One of the sexist posters depicts a man sitting on a sofa and asks women to refrain from being ""sarcastic"" if they need help with household chores.
""In the midst of a global pandemic, @KPWKM thought what we need is some good old-fashioned sexism,"" wrote one Twitter user.
Women’s groups have warned lockdowns could see a rise in domestic violence, as many will be trapped with their abusers.
08:03 People are not the only victims of the coronavirus pandemic, according to German animal rights groups. Empty city centers could result in the death of thousands of pigeons, who are ""starving miserably,"" Leonie Weltgen, a species protection specialist with the German Animal Welfare Association told German daily Express.
Because pigeons are loyal to their locations, they will not leave the city centers and will instead starve to death if they are not provided with food soon. As it’s currently their breeding season, many young animals will die in their nests if their parents can no longer feed them,"" she said.
The group is now calling on cities to set up feeding points for the pigeons, where they are provided with feed such as corn, grains or seeds.
07:33 The coronavirus pandemic is already having a major impact on the tourism industry, with German travel giant TUI seeking aid. Watch DW's latest report here:
Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine
Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3aELd
07:31 Producers of protective facial masks are only delivering the masks to hospitals at inflated prices, and there has been a 3,000% increase in the average cost of a mask since the middle of February, according to a report by German public broadcatser WDR.
The report comes amid calls made by doctors in Germany to boost production of personal protective equipment, which is running low in hospitals due to the coronavirus pandemic.
07:20 Bavarian Interior Minister Joachim Herrmann is encouraging citizens to address violations of the contact regulations with the person committing the violation, or to report infractions directly to police.
""For example, if someone is standing in line at the supermarket, and someone is not holding the required distance from someone else, it can be pointed out that the rules are not being observed,"" Herrmann told RTL. However, citizens should report more serious violations to police.
06:48 The German city of Jena in the eastern state of Thuringia has introduced a facial mask requirement in public spaces, making it the first city in Germany to adopt such a measure.
""In a week, wearing mouth-and-nose protection in Jena sales outlets, local public transport and public buildings will become mandatory,"" the city said. Shawls and scarves can be used in addition to masks, as long as they cover the nose and mouth.
Yesterday, Social Democratic Party (SPD) health expert Karl Lauterbach told the German Editorial Network that such a regulation would be ""sensible."" The comments followed Austria’s new measures implemented yesterday, requiring people to wear protective masks in supermarkets.
05:48 Vietnam is set to begin 15 days of mandatory social distancing from Wednesday, to curb community transmission of the coronavirus, said Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc.
""From midnight on April 1, everybody is required to stay at home and can only go out to buy food or in emergency cases and must keep at least two meters from others,"" he said. Vietnam currently has 204 reported cases and no reported deaths.
05:37 German Justice Minister Christine Lambrecht told German public radio that using tracking technology for personal data to help in the fight against coronavirus would ""only be allowed if people consent,"" adding that ""having the data at our disposal is already a significant invasion of privacy.""
Watch DW's latest report on data tracking and why it is controversial here:
Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine
Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3aDy3
05:29 The US is considering expanding travel restrictions beyond China, Europe and Iran, US President Donald Trump has said.
""They’ll be staying away and we may add a few more,"" he said. ""But the guidelines will very much be as they are, maybe even toughened up a little bit. But they’re having a big impact, they’re having a tremendous impact.""
The ban on foreign arrivals already applies to China, Iran, Ireland, the UK, and 26 Schengen Area countries. The US currently has more cases than any other country, with 164,539 reported infections and over 3,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University.
05:03 Indonesia is set to ban all foreign arrivals to and transits within the country to curb the spread of coronavirus. Foreigners with residence permits and some diplomats will be exempt from the ban, according to Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi.
Indonesia currently has 1,414 reported cases and a death toll of 122, according to Johns Hopkins University.
04:46 The coronavirus epidemic is ""far from over"" in the Asia-Pacific region, a World Health Organization (WHO) official warned on Tuesday.
The current measures to curb the spread of the virus are just buying time for countries to prepare for large-scale community transmissions, according to Takeshi Kasai, Regional Director for the Western Pacific at the WHO.
Everyone must make preparations for widespread transmission, and even countries that are seeing a reduction in case counts should not let down their guard, Kasai said.
04:37 New and controversial lockdown measures came into force in Spain on Tuesday, after Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced that all workers employed in non-essential sectors must stay home until April 9.
Previously, all citizens who could not work from home had been allowed to continue going to and from their workplaces, as part of the emergency measures that have been in place since March 15.
Spain has the highest number of coronavirus infections in Europe, after Italy, with more than 87,000 confirmed cases, and a death toll of 7,916, according to Johns Hopkins.
04:01 South Korea reported 125 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking its total number of infections to 9,786. Four more people died of the coronavirus, bringing the total death toll to 162.
03:41 An online concert hosted by legendary musician Elton John raised nearly $8 million (€7.26 million) for two charities, one of them aiming to help Americans deal with the economic fallout of the coronavirus crisis.
The UK-born singer and composer performed from his kitchen, with other famous musicians, including Billie Eilish, the Backstreet Boys, Lizzo, Alicia Keys, Mariah Carey, Lady Gaga and Tim McGraw, also remotely taking part in the hour-long ""iHeart Living Room Concert for America.""
In addition to the music, the Sunday show also featured stories from nurses, doctors, truck drivers, supermarket employees and other people who are continuing to work as the US faces a pandemic.
02:39 Here is the latest from across Latin America:
Panama: Under new quarantine rules, Panama will separate citizens by gender. Men would be allowed to go out to supermarkets and pharmacies on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays, while women would be able to buy supplies on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Nobody will be allowed out on Sunday. The government has also limited the duration of the outing to two hours. The new measures are set to go into effect on Wednesday and last for 15 days. Latest figures: 1,075 infections, 27 deaths, 9 recovered.
Mexico: The government of Mexico declared a health emergency as the number of infections topped 1,000 on Monday. The officials also announced the lockdown measures will stay in place until the end of April, and cut down the maximum size of public gatherings from 100 to 50 people. At the same time, the country's Health Ministry said people residing in the country would gradually return to work after April 30. Latest figures: 1,094 infections, 28 deaths, at least 35 recovered.
Brazil: President Jair Bolsonaro slammed self-isolation and other measures declared by local authorities as harmful to the economy. ""You can't impose any more quarantine than there already is,"" he told Rede TV. Bolsonaro previously compared the coronavirus to a ""little flu,"" ignored appeals from health officials by meeting groups of his supporters, and warned that stricter measures could push the country toward ""chaos.""
On Monday, opposition leaders called for Bolsonaro's resignation over his handling of the coronavirus pandemic. ""Enough is enough,"" about a dozen of the president's rivals said in an open letter. ""He is committing crimes, spreading false information, lying and inciting chaos.""  Latest figures from the country: 4,630 infections, 163 deaths, 120 recovered.
To understand how the Brazilian president polarizes public opinion over the COVID-19 pandemic, read this piece: Bolsonaro polarizes Brazil with lax coronavirus response
Venezuela: The authorities in Venezuela have been ""90% effective"" when it comes to containing the coronavirus pandemic, said President Nicolas Maduro. However, he warned the outbreak could still spread through local communities. In the next two weeks, the country should ""definitely break the chain of contagion"" and then move toward relative normality, he said on Twitter. Latest figures: 135 infections, 3 deaths, 39 recovered.
Ecuador: With the coronavirus spreading rapidly in Ecuador, the government has pledged to improve collection of dead bodies after complaints from the residents. Ecuador is under strict quarantine and curfew measures. Some residents of the country's most populous city, Guayaquil, complained that the strict lockdown prevents them from disposing of their relatives' remains, forcing them to keep the bodies at home. Latest figures: 1,966 infections, 62 deaths, 3 recovered.
El Salvador: Thousands of people queued up in San Salvador on Monday, in spite of a lockdown order, to seek subsidies promised by the government. Police used pepper spray to disperse the crowds, Previously, the government pledged to give $300 per household to people working informal jobs, such as house cleaners and street vendors, amid the coronavirus crisis. Latest figures: 30 infections, 0 deaths, 0 recovered.
02:10  Finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of 20 major economies will hold a second round of virtual talks on Tuesday to push ahead the coronavirus response, said Saudi Arabia, which currently holds the group's rotating presidency.
G20 leaders last week pledged a ""united front"" in the fight against the pandemic, saying they were injecting $5 trillion (€4.5 trillion) into the global economy to head off forecasts of a deep recession.
01:20 The World Bank says economic growth in the Asia-Pacific region will take a hit this year on account of the massive public health crisis unleashed by the novel coronavirus. Under a worse-case scenario, the region could suffer its sharpest downturn since a devastating financial crisis more than two decades ago, the bank said.
The bank's report projects that growth in the region would slow to 2.1% this year from 5.8% in 2019 under a ""baseline"" forecast in which economic recovery takes hold this summer.
But under a worse case, in which the adverse effects of the virus spillover into next year, the region's economy would contract 0.5%, the bank estimates.
In the World Bank's base case, China, the world's second-largest economy, would see growth slow from 6.1% last year to 2.3% this year. In the worse-case scenario, growth in China would come to a near halt with a tiny 0.1% gain.
Read more:  Will coronavirus spark a wave of food nationalism?
00:42 The US military announced the first death of a service member due to the coronavirus. The disease claimed the life of a New Jersey Army National Guardsman who was hospitalized on March 21.
""Today is a sad day for the Department of Defense as we have lost our first American service member — active, reserve or Guard — to coronavirus,"" Defense Secretary Mark Esper said in a statement, without providing more information on the victim.
""This is a stinging loss for our military community, and our condolences go out to his family, friends, civilian co-workers and the entire National Guard community.""
Hours before announcing the guardsman's death, the Pentagon said that 568 troops have so far tested positive for the virus, more than double the number declared on Thursday.
Over 450 Defense Department's civilian employees, contractors and dependents have also tested positive.
00:15 Spain banned funeral ceremonies amid the coronavirus crisis, including vigils attended by friends and family in private homes, regardless of the cause of death. Under the orders announced on Monday, up to three people are allowed to attend a burial or a cremation. The attendees would also be required to maintain a safe distance.
Amid a nationwide lockdown, the government said that ""religious celebrations and civilian funeral ceremonies are postponed until the end of the alert"" which is currently set for April 11.
Spain has seen 7,340 coronavirus deaths, more than any other country except Italy, where the death toll stands at 11,591. Italian authorities have already implemented similar measures.
Send  Facebook   Twitter   google+   Whatsapp   Tumblr   linkedin   stumble   Digg   reddit   Newsvine
Permalink https://p.dw.com/p/3a9e8
00:05 In Germany, consumer groups warn of online scammers taking advantage of the coronavirus crisis.
The fraudsters ""want to take advantage of people's worries and fears to enrich themselves,"" said the head of the Federation of German Consumer Organizations, Klaus Müller.
Some people provide unreliable medical information, while others advertise non-existing online businesses to sell face masks and disinfectants, Müller told Germany's Funke Medien Gruppe.
""The goods are allegedly in stock, but the payment is only possible in advance,"" the activist said. ""The goods are never delivered. The operator and the shops are not reachable and the buyers do not get their money back.""
Müller also warns against people trying to make money through price gouging, ramping up the prices of the highly sought-after products.
This includes online traders who ""offer a set of toilet paper rolls for €20 ($22) or one liter of disinfectant fluid for €199.""
The coronavirus pandemic has set off a wave of panic-buying in Germany, leading to intermittent shortages of toilet paper and disinfectants.
00:00 Catch up on yesterday's news here: More than 750,000 cases across the globe
lc,rc,jsi,djv/aw (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)
Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.
Businesses and individuals around the world are facing up to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The UN estimates over 24 million people could lose their jobs — if action is not taken now. (18.03.2020)
Money is tight at the best of times for lower-league clubs, but coronavirus poses an existential threat. From attendance records to matches against ""FC Corona"" to virtual pyrotechnics, German clubs are getting creative. (30.03.2020)
Since the first cases were confirmed in December 2019, the flu-like COVID-19 virus exploded into a global pandemic, killing tens of thousands of people and infecting around 800,000. Scientists scramble for a vaccine. (12.03.2020)
No leadership, no empathy — America does not deserve Donald Trump's poor crisis management. Nevertheless, the Americans just might re-elect him in November, says DW's Alexandra von Nahmen.
Italy is the second country, after the US, to record more than 100,000 cases. Globally, more than 35,000 people have died. Follow DW for the latest.
The death toll in Italy has now exceeded 10,000, while Spain recorded its worst day yet. The Chinese city Wuhan — ground zero of the coronavirus pandemic — has partially reopened to outsiders. Follow DW for the latest.
© 2020 Deutsche Welle |
Privacy Policy |
Legal notice |
Contact
| Mobile version"
