"In an uplifting performance, Virgin Australia staff bid farewell to conducting international flights with a performance set to Glee's version of Journey hit ""Don't Stop Believing"" at Brisbane Airport. The video has since gone viral.
The video came as Virgin Australia on Monday joined airlines across the globe in announcing a pause on international flights due to the coronavirus pandemic.
""What an amazing send off to our last international departure (for a little while),"" wrote the company on its official Twitter account. ""Thank you team for keeping our spirits high! We can't wait to see what the welcome back party looks like.""
Staff danced on the tarmac, and in the terminal, as they waved goodbye to a Virgin airplane.
Brisbane International! What an amazing send off to our last international departure (for a little while). Thank you team for keeping our spirits high! We can't wait to see what the welcome back party looks like. pic.twitter.com/HASgjPD4Ri
Caitlyn Schuhmacher, Virgin guest services agent and airport trainer, was inspired by a previous uplifting airport dance by Virgin staff to Tina Turner's ""Nutbush,"" in which each participant stood 1.5 meters apart.
""There was such a solemn mood I thought 'now is the perfect time to something like this,'"" Schuhmacher told Traveller. ""We needed something positive to remember from the day.""
Around 8,000 staff will pause working for Virgin Australia as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, while some 1,000 staff have been made redundant. Virgin Australia will ground all international flights until June 14 at the earliest in response to the virus outbreak.
More than 39,000 people have died, with 172,000 recoveries and over 800,000 infected worldwide following the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus, according Johns Hopkins University. The pandemic has prompted numerous countries to place their citizens on lockdown to prevent the spread of the disease.
Virgin Australia has requested an $860 million (1.4 billion Australian dollar) loan from the federal government to ensure its survival after the coronavirus pandemic.
A total of 125 Virgin Australia aircraft are now grounded, the company's final international flight was the VA153 from Brisbane to Auckland, which took off on Sunday, 29 March, ahead of the official suspension of flights from Monday, 30 March. Domestic flights have been cut by 90 percent.
Virgin Australia joins other airlines including Thai AirAsia and Bangkok Airways in suspending international routes, while American Airlines has suspended many of its long-haul international flights.
World Health Organization advice for avoiding spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Hygiene advice
Medical advice
Mask and glove usage
Weekly magazine,
delivered  Daily Newsletter
 Website access
Weekly magazine,
delivered  Daily Newsletter
 Website access
Free access to 40+
digital editions  Website
access  Daily Newsletter
© 2020 Newsweek"
