"A vast majority of Americans say television is their primary source of news as the U.S. hunkers down amid the coronavirus pandemic, according to a new poll.
The latest Harvard CAPS/Harris poll found that 71 percent of Americans said television news was their primary source of information. Another 51 percent said online news was their primary source of news, while 19 percent said the same about print news.
Another 32 percent of respondents said they were relying on social media to keep them up to date on the latest news.
Cable news networks, along with local affiliated stations have carried President TrumpDonald John TrumpHealth insurers Cigna, Humana waive out-of-pocket costs for coronavirus treatment Puerto Rico needs more federal help to combat COVID-19 Fauci says April 30 extension is 'a wise and prudent decision' MORE’s briefings, along with the White House coronavirus task force on the U.S. response to the pandemic on a daily basis.
Seventy-two percent of respondents said they watch Trump’s daily briefings.
""People are turning to local news for the first time in a long time to find out what’s happening in their community. Fox News ranked next and the power of tv as a communications medium is affirmed,"" said Harvard CAPS-Harris polling director Mark PennMark PennTrump gets polling boost, but will it last? Worried about dying from COVID-19? You might be a millennial Poll: Coronavirus fears dampen sentiment about the economy MORE. ""They are also tuning in big time to the president's briefings, which are seen as more positive than negative.""
Members of his task force, particularly Dr. Anthony FauciAnthony FauciFauci says task force 'argued strongly' with Trump to extend coronavirus guidelines Fauci says April 30 extension is 'a wise and prudent decision' Governors, health experts warn coronavirus restrictions must stay in place MORE, have become widely trusted and popular among the public.
Fauci has employed an effective media strategy of appearing on traditional outlets, like the cable networks, to appearing on popular culture programs, like Barstool’s “Pardon My Take” podcast.
The same Harvard CAPS/Harris poll showed Fauci’s favorability rating at 55 percent.
Governors and mayors across the country have also taken to holding daily briefings in an effort to inform their citizens.
New York Gov. Andrew CuomoAndrew CuomoCuomo popularity highest in 7 years: poll Watch live: Andrew Cuomo provides New York state coronavirus response update CDC issues travel advisory for NY tri-state area after Trump says quarantine not necessary MORE’s daily briefings have been carried by national news networks as well as the number of cases in the state continues to climb.
This survey was conducted online within the United States from March 24-26, 2020 among 2,410 registered voters by The Harris Poll. Results were weighted for age within gender, region, race/ethnicity, marital status, household size, income, employment, education, political party, and political ideology where necessary to align them with their actual proportions in the population. Propensity score weighting was also used to adjust for respondents’ propensity to be online. The poll’s margin of error is plus or minus 2 percentage points.
View the discussion thread.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc."
