"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
‘We are going to fight every way we can to save every life that we can’
A Navy hospital ship carrying 1000 beds and 1200 medical personnel has arrived in New York City to help combat the coronavirus pandemic.
The USNS Comfort arrived in Manhattan on Monday and will treat those who need non-coronavirus related care.
Despite the lockdown in effect, groups of people gathered to watch the ship arrive, likely breaking social distancing rules.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
Mayor of New York, Bill de Blasio recently announced that he would fine people $500 for not practising social distancing.
The ship will free up space in New York hospitals, allowing medical officials to focus on tackling Covid-19.
New York is currently struggling with the outbreak, having reported the most cases of any state in the US.
Figures from the Johns Hopkins University show that New York has upwards of at least 1000 deaths related to the virus.
The ship is equipped with 12 operating rooms, a laboratory, a pharmacy and will be used immediately to treat patients.
The governor of New York, Andrew Cuomo, released a video on Twitter explaining how helpful the ship will be.
In the video, Mr Cuomo lists the medical capabilities of the ship and says: “we are going to fight every way we can to save every life that we can”.
No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
Some Twitter users criticised the crowd that gathered to watch the ship come in, amid repeated warnings about social distancing.
Twitter user @achorowitz tweeted: “You would think the necessity of a gigantic hospital ship would be enough to make people rethink crowd situations but... *gestures wildly*.”
Another user, @juliakmarsh highlighted the Mayor’s policy, posting: “De Blasio said this morning he’d start fining people up to $500 for not social distancing yet there’s this crowd outside Pier 90 where the  US Naval Hospital Ship Comfort and none of the several cops on site are doing anything to disperse them.”
Mr de Blasio commented on the ship’s arrival, saying: “This is like adding another hospital here in New York City”.
Mr Cuomo extended his executive order on Sunday, stating all non-essential workers must stay home for another two weeks as coronavirus cases increase.
In a press conference on Sunday evening Mr Cuomo said: “This is not a lockdown. It is a travel advisory to be implemented by the states, in essence.”
“It’s nothing that we haven’t been doing, right? Non-essential people should stay home.”
According to a tracking project hosted by Johns Hopkins University, upwards of 143,055 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the US. The death toll has reached at least 2,513.
The Centres for Disease Control and Prevention has recommended a two-week ban on gatherings of more than 50 people as part of the battle to contain the spread of the contagion.
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
