"Your evening guide: One in four NHS doctors off sick or self-isolating & man accused of Britain's first self-isolation 'murder'
If you want to receive twice-daily briefings like this by email, sign up to the Front Page newsletter here. For two-minute audio updates, try The Briefing - on podcasts, smart speakers and WhatsApp.
It is a frightening statistic. Around one in four NHS doctors are off work sick or in isolation due to coronavirus, the head of the Royal College of Physicians (RCP) has said. Professor Andrew Goddard, president of the RCP, said about 25 per cent of the doctor workforce is off, either with coronavirus or because a family member or housemate is ill. And there are claims nurses on some coronavirus wards are being put at risk by caring for patients without any protective equipment at all. It comes as a further 180 people who tested positive for Covid-19 have died, bringing the total number of confirmed reported deaths in the UK to 1,408. Read the latest in our coronavirus liveblog, which also reveals how the Prince of Wales is out of self-isolation after he tested positive last week.
Meanwhile, coronavirus continues to sweep through Downing Street. The Prime Minister's chief adviser Dominic Cummings is self-isolating after developing symptoms. Boris Johnson, Health Secretary Matt Hancock and the UK's Brexit negotiator David Frost have all been struck down, while chief medical officer Professor Chris Whitty and Scottish Secretary Alister Jack have also quarantined themselves after noticing symptoms. Here is a reminder of what to expect if you contract Covid-19. Dominic Raab chaired today's Downing Street press conference. He said an ""unprecedented number of UK travellers are trying to get home"" and said the Government is ""working around the clock to support, advise and help British travellers get home"". Read the latest here.
PS - News you can trust is more important than ever. Stay informed with our liveblog, daily Global Health Bulletin, WhatsApp group, coronavirus podcast and index page with all our articles. We have a special offer when you take out a new Telegraph subscription that allows you to access all our newspaper and online articles without leaving home. Sign up for a free one-month trial - then save 50pc on your first three months.
A husband was today accused of Britain's first self-isolating murder after his wife was found dead at their home. Anthony Williams, 69, appeared in court charged with killing wife Ruth, 67, at their house in South Wales, where they had been self-isolating. The tragedy comes after campaigners warned enforced isolation could lead to an ""epidemic"" in domestic violence. Neighbours said the couple had lived in their semi-detached home in Brynglas, Cwmbran, for around 20 years and were both retired. Mrs Williams worked at a supermarket. Read on for more.
There have been many tales of bravery and sacrifice by medical workers fighting Covid-19 around the world, but none quite compares to the Australian astrophysicist who got four magnets stuck up his nose while trying to develop a device to prevent people touching their faces. Dr Daniel Reardon, a research fellow at Melbourne’s Swinburne University, had to be taken to hospital after his efforts to build a necklace that sounds an alarm on facial contact went haywire. The 27-year-old said he was trying to combat boredom as well as Covid-19 when he began experimenting with four powerful magnets. Read what happened next.
Aviation in trouble | EasyJet has grounded its entire fleet due to the ""unprecedented travel restrictions"" imposed by governments, giving no indication about when its planes will next fly. Read on for details.
Police officers in Kenya's Mombasa fired tear gas to disperse crowds hours before a curfew was imposed to try to curb the spread of coronavirus. Kenya, which has 28 confirmed coronavirus cases and one death, started enforcing a 7pm to 5am curfew daily starting on Friday. Click here to see crowds flee as police fired tear gas at them.
New MI5 boss | MI5 veteran Ken McCallum has been appointed as the new director general of the security service. He takes over from Sir Andrew Parker, who retires in April having been in charge of the organisation since 2013. Read Sir Andrew's comments on his successor.
Nuclear talks | North Korea says comments from the United States over its nuclear weapons programme have ""led us to lose the will for dialogue again"", warning the country could walk away from deadlocked talks. Last week, in dialogue with the Group of Seven nations, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said allies must be firm in their resolve to force North Korea to return to the negotiating table. Read the country's response.
The Real Michael Jackson, BBC Two, 9pm | Even after the horrors of Finding Neverland, this feature-length documentary shows there is much more to be said about the dead King of Pop's fall from grace. Read on for more.
Otter boom | Britain's otters have been spotted all over the country as they have come inland due to the wet winter, with many seen in garden ponds. The recent floods caused the animals, threatened with extinction, to leave the rivers where they live and travel over the land, into gardens and fields. Read on for details.
© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2020
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
Thank you for your support.
Need help?
Visit our adblocking instructions
page."
