"Forty-five percent of Americans say they have a favorable view of how New York Gov. Andrew CuomoAndrew CuomoCuomo popularity highest in 7 years: poll Watch live: Andrew Cuomo provides New York state coronavirus response update CDC issues travel advisory for NY tri-state area after Trump says quarantine not necessary MORE (D) is responding to the coronavirus pandemic, according to a new Harvard CAPS/Harris poll released exclusively to The Hill.
The same survey showed President TrumpDonald John TrumpHealth insurers Cigna, Humana waive out-of-pocket costs for coronavirus treatment Puerto Rico needs more federal help to combat COVID-19 Fauci says April 30 extension is 'a wise and prudent decision' MORE’s approval rating at 48 percent, while 50 percent said they approved of his handling of the crisis.
The new figures come as Cuomo’s daily press briefings have become must-see television across the country as the number of COVID-19 cases in New York City skyrockets.
""Governor Cuomo has made a solid positive impression on the public based on his briefings,"" Harvard CAPS/Harris polling director Mark PennMark PennTrump gets polling boost, but will it last? Worried about dying from COVID-19? You might be a millennial Poll: Coronavirus fears dampen sentiment about the economy MORE told The Hill. ""No question he is seen now as a leader at least with Democrats and not seen as partisan since he is favorable right now by 2 to 1.""
Cuomo is even more popular among his constituents. A Siena College released Monday showed his favorability at 71 percent, a significant increase from 44 percent in February and the highest in seven years.
The same survey found 87 percent of New Yorkers saying they support the job Cuomo is doing to address the pandemic. Only 11 percent said they disapprove.
Cuomo has drawn bipartisan praise for his handling of the crisis. His daily briefings have been particularly detailed with visual aids and input from other state officials and experts, and he has tried to humanize the outbreak by sometimes talking about his daughters and their experience with the pandemic.
As of Sunday evening, New York state had more than 60,000 coronavirus cases, with about 35,000 in New York City, the nation’s epicenter of the outbreak.
The Harvard CAPS/Harris survey was conducted online March 24-26 by The Harris Poll among 2,410 registered voters. Results were weighted for age within gender, region, race/ethnicity, marital status, household size, income, employment, education, political party and political ideology where necessary to align them with their actual proportions in the population.
Propensity score weighting was also used to adjust for respondents’ propensity to be online. The poll’s margin of error is plus or minus 2 percentage points.
View the discussion thread.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc."
