"You are now logged in.
Forgot your password?
Create new account
Coronavirus
Damon Root  | 3.30.2020 1:30 PM
The Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires the government to pay just compensation when it takes private property for a public use. Does that apply when the government orders a business to close its doors indefinitely in order to help prevent the spread of COVID-19? Is the shuttered business entitled to compensation for its troubles?
These are not hypothetical questions. Schulmerich Bells, a small outfit that makes handcrafted handbells and chimes in Hatfield, Pennsylvania, has filed a federal lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of Gov. Thomas Wolf's order indefinitely closing all ""non-life-sustaining"" businesses during the COVID-19 outbreak. ""The Governor has placed the cost of these Orders—issued for the benefit of the public—squarely upon the shoulders of private individuals and their families, and has failed to justly compensate affected parties for these takings undertaken for their benefit to the public,"" the suit states. ""These uncompensated seizures violate the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment."" The suit seeks the payment of just compensation by the state.
The U.S. Supreme Court has long said that the states may regulate—and even prohibit—certain property uses in the name of public health and safety without triggering the Takings Clause. In Mugler v. Kansas (1887), the Court ruled against a liquor manufacturer whose livelihood was destroyed when the state banned the sale and manufacture of ""intoxicating beverages."" According to the Court, ""a prohibition simply upon the use of property for purposes that are declared, by valid legislation, to be injurious to the health, morals, or safety of the community, cannot, in any just sense, be deemed a taking or an appropriation of property for the public benefit."" Such government action ""does not disturb the owner in the control or use of his property for lawful purposes, nor restrict his right to dispose of it, but is only a declaration by the State that its use by any one, for certain forbidden purposes, is prejudicial to the public interests.""
Similarly, in Miller v. Schoene (1928), the Supreme Court upheld a Virginia law requiring the destruction of red cedar trees infected with cedar rust if those trees stood within two miles of an apple orchard (cedar rust is highly detrimental to apple trees). ""The state does not exceed its constitutional powers by deciding upon the destruction of one class of property in order to save another which, in the judgment of the legislature, is of greater value to the public,"" the Court said. ""It will not do to say that the case is merely one of a conflict of two private interests and that the misfortune of apple growers may not be shifted to cedar owners by ordering the destruction of their property; for it is obvious that there may be, and that here there is, a preponderant public concern in the preservation of the one interest over the other.""
In short, if this particular lawsuit is going to succeed, it will have to clear some steep precedential hurdles.
Related: ""Police Powers During a Pandemic, Constitutional, but Not Unlimited.""
Advertisement
NEXT: ""Wuhan COVID-19 Death Toll May Be in the Tens of Thousands""
Damon Root is a senior editor at Reason and the author of Overruled: The Long War for Control of the U.S. Supreme Court (Palgrave Macmillan).
Show Comments (3)
Editor's Note: We invite comments and request that they be civil and on-topic. We do not moderate or assume any responsibility for comments, which are owned by the readers who post them. Comments do not represent the views of Reason.com or Reason Foundation. We reserve the right to delete any comment for any reason at any time. Report abuses.
In short, if this particular lawsuit is going to succeed, it will have to clear some steep precedential hurdles.
Pigs will have to sprout wings?
In short, if this particular lawsuit is going to succeed, it will have to clear some steep precedential hurdles.
Succeed legally, that is. Plenty of libertarians would rightly point out that the government telling you to close your business while throwing money at you isn’t exactly free market or liberty-oriented (or necessarily Constitutional) either.
Also, there’s a pretty clear argument against the narrow decisions or implications cited voiding the applications of Takings and the case in question. The cases specifically said you can’t use your property to make alcohol or cocktails. Essentially leaving open the ability to do pretty much anything else with these properties. The specific orders in question don’t allow for any other options. Even if they wanted to shutter the business, level any structures, and sell the property, the government has placed an undue burden across the board.
“We’re sorry. You should have tried harder to get on the S.S. Bailout.”
Please log in to post comments
Robby Soave  | 3.30.2020 1:50 PM
Damon Root  | 3.30.2020 1:30 PM
Eugene Volokh  | 3.30.2020 1:02 PM
Jacob Sullum  | 3.30.2020 12:35 PM
Eugene Volokh  | 3.30.2020 12:05 PM
Coronavirus
The Scandinavian country is betting against draconian restrictions and in favor of the free movement of people and goods.
Johan Norberg  | 3.25.2020 4:20 PM
Coronavirus
That's a huge concern as forecasters expect the U.S. unemployment rate in the months to come to surpass that seen during the depths of the Great Depression.
J.D. Tuccille  | 3.27.2020 11:10 AM
Joe Biden
A former staffer says he sexually assaulted her in 1993.
Robby Soave  | 3.26.2020 3:18 PM
Coronavirus
But he has raised his estimate of the virus's reproduction number, which implies a lower fatality rate than his research group initially assumed.
Jacob Sullum  | 3.27.2020 1:15 PM
One way of getting a perspective on the magnitude of the problem, at least today, and in what seems to be the hardest-hit country.
Eugene Volokh  |The Volokh Conspiracy | 3.17.2020 1:55 PM
© Reason Foundation | Privacy Policy | Terms Of Use"
