"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
‘My babies are too young to read this now. And they’d barely recognise me in my gear’

A doctor in New York has left a heartbreaking goodbye message to her children in case she dies of coronavirus in the fight against the disease.
Dr Cornelia Griggs is working on the front lines of the coronavirus epidemic in New York City, which has become the epicentre of the outbreak in the US.
In an emotional post on her Twitter page, Dr Griggs left a message for her children in case she falls victim to the virus while working during the pandemic.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
“My babies are too young to read this now. And they’d barely recognise me in my gear. But if they lose me to Covid I want them to know Mommy tried really hard to do her job. #GetMePPE #NYC,” she wrote.
The doctor posted the message alongside a photo of her in head to toe protective gear.
The tweet has gone viral with more than 100,000 retweets and 500,000 likes.
New York state is the worst hit in the country by the pandemic, with over 59,000 cases and 965 deaths recorded as of Monday, according to CNN.
The state now accounts for roughly a quarter of the 100,000 infections in the whole US.
New York City remains in an unprecedented state of emergency, as 98 people in New York City died on Sunday, raising the city’s death toll to nearly 800.
As a result of the virus, the city’s healthcare systems have been completely overrun and are struggling to cope with the number of hospitalised patients.
On Monday, authorities gave the go-ahead for the construction of a field hospital in Central Park to help services cope with the number of patients.
The doctors GetMePPE hashtag refers to the ongoing strain within the state of supplies of personal protective equipment (PPE) to healthcare professionals. PPE helps to protect workers against infection when treating patients.
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo assured healthcare workers in a press conference on Wednesday that hospitals have plenty of PPE for staff members for the immediate future.
No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
However, medical workers continue to criticise the government and insist that there is not an adequate enough supply to follow guidelines where there are a lot of risks involved.
Last week, 48-year-old nursing manager Kious Kelly died at a Mount Sinai New York hospital of Covid-19, according to reports.
Staffers alleged to The New York Post that his death was connected to PPE shortages. A spokesperson for Mount Sinai has strongly denied the claims.
A picture of nursing staff wrapping themselves in bin bags as makeshift gowns at the same Mount Sinai hospital where Kelly worked also went viral online.
In a statement to The Hill, a spokesperson said the hospital system “always” provides “all our staff with the critically important” PPE “they need to do their job”.
“If an individual does not have their proper PPE, they do not go on the floor, period. Any suggestion otherwise is simply not accurate,” the spokesperson said.
The number of cases of the novel coronavirus has surpassed 690,000 worldwide, according to The World Health Organization.
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
