"This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2020 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      All market data delayed 20 minutes.
The White House extends social distancing guidelines to April 30 on the latest advice from medical experts; John Roberts reports.
Get all the latest news on coronavirus and more delivered daily to your inbox. Sign up here.
Not even social distancing was going to keep people from celebrating this birthday in Massachusetts.
The Quincy Police Department shared a video on Sunday of a birthday parade held for Christopher Eleey, who turned 70.
""The 'party' may have been a little different than planned, but the love of your family and friends remains the same!"" Quincy Police tweeted.
PENNSYLVANIA SENIOR LIVING FACILITY RESIDENTS SOCIAL DISTANCE FOR CORONAVIRUS, SING 'GOD BLESS AMERICA' FROM BALCONIES
In the video released by police, Eleey can be seen standing on his front porch, waving as a special parade featuring a police car, fire engine, and his family and friends drive past his home.
As the vehicles drove past, drivers honked and waved at Eleey, who thanked everyone.
Christopher Eleey, 70, reacts to a birthday parade on Sunday outside his home in Quincy, Mass.
      (Quincy Police Department.)
Those who drove by even had balloons present as they gave their well-wishes.
CLICK HERE FOR FULL CORONAVIRUS COVERAGE
As the coronavirus pandemic has caused many health officials to advise people against large gatherings and close contact with those most susceptible to the virus, many have turned to drive-by birthday parties over the past several weeks.
CLICK HERE FOR THE FOX NEWS APP
As of Monday morning, Massachusetts had 4,955 positive cases of COVID-19 and 48 deaths, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.
Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2020 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. All market data delayed 20 minutes."
