"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
Virus spreads actively in nose and throat, study shows
Coronavirus sufferers are most likely to pass on the virus during their first week of symptoms, research suggests.
And with pressure on hospital beds, some of those beyond their tenth day of symptoms could safely be allowed home to self-isolate, a study says.
Scientists who analysed data from nine patients in Germany with mild symptoms found that the virus spread actively in the upper respiratory tract — the nose, mouth and throat.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
A loss of sense of smell and taste have been widely pinpointed as early symptoms.
The researchers analysed throat and lung samples, sputum — mucus from the respiratory tract, and blood and urine from the patients.
They found high levels of virus “replication” in upper respiratory tract tissues, and high levels of “viral shedding” in the upper respiratory tract during the first week of symptoms.
They said they could also isolate an infectious form of the virus from samples taken from the throat and lungs of the patients until day eight of symptoms.
But two patients, who showed some early signs of pneumonia, still shed high levels of the virus in their sputum until day 10 or 11, and the virus remained detectable in the sputum after symptoms stopped.
The scientists wrote in the paper that initial results suggest measures to contain viral spread should aim at droplet-based — rather than surface — transmission.
“In a situation characterised by limited capacity of hospital beds in infectious diseases wards, there is pressure for early discharge following treatment.
No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
“Based on the present findings, early discharge with ensuing home isolation could be chosen for patients who are beyond day 10 of symptoms with less than 100,000 viral RNA copies per ml of sputum.
“Both criteria predict that there is little residual risk of infectivity, based on cell culture.”
The scientists said further research could help to assess whether increases in the viral load of a patient after the first week of symptoms could signal an aggravation of symptoms.
The study, published in the Nature journal, was carried out by Christian Drosten from Charite Universitatsmedizin, Berlin, one of the world’s leading experts on coronaviruses, and colleagues.
The virus was not detected in patients’ blood or urine samples.
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
