"New York Gov. Andrew CuomoAndrew CuomoBiden leads Trump by 6 points in national poll CNN's Cuomo discusses positive coronavirus diagnosis on-air: 'You do not want this' New York City coronavirus death toll surpasses 1,000 MORE (D) on Wednesday called Chris CuomoChristopher (Chris) Charles CuomoCNN's Cuomo discusses positive coronavirus diagnosis on-air: 'You do not want this' Overnight Health Care: White House projects grim death toll from coronavirus | Trump warns of 'painful' weeks ahead | US surpasses China in official virus deaths | CDC says 25 percent of cases never show symptoms 14 things to know for today about coronavirus MORE's decision to do his CNN show just hours after announcing he had tested positive for coronavirus ""a gutsy, courageous thing to do.""
""He did his show last night from his basement. What a gutsy, courageous thing to do,"" Andrew Cuomo said during his daily briefing on New York's response to the pandemic, adding that his younger brother can show ""the country what it means to have coronavirus.""
""Pop would be proud ... I love you little brother,"" the governor said, referring to their father, the late Mario Cuomo, a former Democratic governor of New York, before joking about a photo of his brother speaking mid-sentence while broadcasting from his basement.
""And even though this isn't a flattering picture — I did not pick this picture with your mouth open — but it is suitable in some ways,"" he mused.
Chris Cuomo, 49, shared on Tuesday that he had been ""exposed to people in recent days who have subsequently tested positive"" and was experiencing ""fever, chills and shortness of breath"" but vowed to continue broadcasting both his SiriusXM radio show and CNN primetime program.
“I feel fine. I’m able to do the show. You do not want this, and I am not able to be there for my family right now in the way that I want to be,” Chris Cuomo said in a broadcast from his basement Monday night.
“And yet I’m hesitant to talk about me because who cares? This is so small compared to what so many of us are facing,” he added, noting that ramped-up testing would likely result in significantly more positive test results in the weeks ahead.
Chris Cuomo, who co-anchored CNN's morning program ""New Day"" after coming over from ABC News in 2013, launched his prime-time program in June 2018.
View the discussion thread.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc."
