"By Jack Wright For Mailonline
Published:  13:22 EDT, 1 April 2020   |  Updated:  13:29 EDT, 1 April 2020

1
View  comments

JK Rowling has announced plans to bring a dose of 'magic' to children, parents, and teachers during the coronavirus lockdown.
The author, 54, has unveiled hub Harry Potter At Home, which will feature 'information and activities for children, parents, and carers'.
Set to be hosted on WizardingWorld.com, the hub is being described as an 'online space for younger children to discover the magic of Harry Potter'.
They can do so 'on their own, or reading and listening' with an adult.
Families will also be able to access free audiobooks and eBooks of Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone throughout April.
JK Rowling has announced plans to bring a dose of 'magic' to children, parents, and teachers during the coronavirus lockdown (pictured, Harry Potter At Home on a tablet)
JK Rowling at the Broadway, NY opening of Harry Potter And The Cursed Child in April 2018
Rowling said: 'The teachers, parents and carers working to keep children's lives as normal and happy as possible while we're all on lockdown deserve a bit of magic.
'I hope these initiatives will give children and even adults a happy distraction during their enforced stay-at-home time.'
The hub, which is now live, says: Welcome to the Harry Potter At Home hub where you'll find all the latest magical treats to keep you occupied - including special contributions from Bloomsbury and Scholastic, nifty magical craft videos (teach your friends how to draw a Niffler!), fun articles, quizzes, puzzles and plenty more for first-time readers, as well as those already familiar with the wizarding world.
'We're casting a Banishing Charm on boredom!'
In the section titled Introducing Harry Potter At Home, it reads: 'For over 20 years now, Hogwarts has been an escape for all - for readers and fans, young and old.
'During the strange times we now find ourselves in, we want to welcome you back to Hogwarts, where you will find a friendly retreat for you and your family'.
Rowling has unveiled hub Harry Potter At Home, which will feature 'information and activities for children, parents, and carers (pictured, Harry Potter At Home on a tablet)
Set to be hosted on WizardingWorld.com, the hub is being described as an 'online space for younger children to discover the magic of Harry Potter' (pictured, wordsearch)
Rowling said: 'The teachers, parents and carers working to keep children's lives as normal and happy as possible while we're all on lockdown deserve a bit of magic'
The announcement comes after Rowling was told to 'stay safe' last week from a Lord Voldemort Twitter account - to the delight of Harry Potter fans.
Rowling had posted a link to an NHS page with advice about 'what we can all do to help the NHS and look after ourselves and our loved ones'.
She received a reply from a Twitter account displaying an image of the evil sorcerer, played by Ralph Fiennes in the hit movies.
The user said 'stay safe, jo', before she playfully responded: 'You too, Voldy'.
Wizarding Wednesdays will provide 'creative and craft activities, quizzes and fun things to do for parents and carers'.
Audible is making the audiobook of Harry Potter And The Philosopher's Stone free, while a collaboration with digital library supplier OverDrive will allow members to borrow the first book in the series free in April.
Neil Blair, founder of Rowling's agency The Blair Partnership, said: 'The Harry Potter books have always been a refuge, comfort and escape for readers, and right now we need reading for pleasure more than ever.'
Full details of all the Harry Potter At Home initiatives are at www.harrypotterathome.com.
Share what you think
The comments below have not been moderated.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of MailOnline.
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.

Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook Timeline?
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to Facebook.
You can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our Privacy Policy.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group"
