"By Mike Stunson
With grocery store employees working in stressful conditionsduring the coronavirus pandemic, many will receive a reprieve on Easter Sunday.
Several national chains have announced they will be closed on Easter — April 12 — to give their employees a break. Target is among the stores who will lock their doors on Easter Sunday, Today reported.
Trader Joe’s also posted on its website it will be closed “to give our incredible Crew Members a much needed day of rest.”
Costco, Sam’s Club and Publix are traditionally closed on Easter, and will observe the holiday again this year. Publix is closed just three days a year, Sam’s Club four days a year, while Costco closes seven days a year.
Subscribe for unlimited digital access to the news that matters to your community.
“Historically, we have this time off in order to allow our associates an opportunity to spend time we family and friends,” Maria Brous, director of communications at Publix, told Today. “As we are in unprecedented times, we realize social distancing may change the way we celebrate, but we will remain closed for the holiday.”
Aldi stores, except for its California locations, will also be closed on Easter, the store says.
Today has a list of stores open on Easter, which includes Walmart and Whole Foods.
Some grocery stores across the country have reduced their hours amid the coronavirus pandemic. Others have opened early for older shoppers, and some are limiting the number of customers in their stores to promote social distancing.
Grocery stores have been deemed essential businesses and have remained open during a time when many of the nation’s residents are being asked to stay at home except for trips to grocery stores, pharmacies or doctor’s appointments.
Some stores, including Kohl’s, Macy’s and IKEA, have closed during the pandemic and are only offering delivery or pick-up services.
By Alex Daugherty
The U.S. Surgeon General said a nationwide stay-at-home order is the “best possible guidance” the Coronavirus Task Force can give after Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis said their recommendation would carry weight.
Subscribe for unlimited digital access to the news that matters to your community.
Real-time updates and all local stories you want right in the palm of your hand."
