"GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X
Trending:
Oakland Zoo, hurting from loss of revenue during the COVID-19 mandatory closure, is launching a live-streaming “Behind the Scenes” subscription service to teach people about the animals in its care, as well as offset financial losses.
People can subscribe to the program, which will broadcast through the zoo’s website at 2:30 p.m. every weekday starting April 2. Each 20 to 30-minute animal-centric show features animals, their keepers and veterinary hospital staff. The experts will talk about the animals and their behaviors, and give viewers a look at parts of the zoo they would never see on an in-person visit. Subscribers can direct message their questions and comments.
Subscriptions are $14.95 a month, but zoo members get the first 30 days free, followed by a discounted $9.95 a month fee.
“Being closed to the public pushed us to think about how we could offer people a new way to connect with us in an impactful and unique way, while helping the zoo survive without admissions revenue,” Zoo president and CEO Joel Parrott said. “Going behind the scenes and including the interactive component for subscribers to submit questions in real time gives people something that goes even beyond a normal zoo visit.”
Related Articles


			Why did a flock of crows attack a single crow?		




			Farm animals can now attend your virtual meeting, thanks to Half Moon Bay animal sanctuary		




			Why is a small bird constantly pecking at my window?		




			Pets and nature — giving us hope in this COVID-19 nightmare		




			Photos: Fighting coronavirus fears and isolation with the love of our pets		

Zoo admissions account for 80 percent of the zoo’s operating budget. Officials are hoping revenue from the subscription service will help offset the losses that have forced layoffs and reduced work hours for staff beginning April 1.
The subscription series is slated to continue even after the zoo reopens. Find more information at www.oaklandzoo.org/go-behind-the-scenes.
Get Morning Report and other email newsletters
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you accept our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy.
OK"
