"Please read our updated Privacy Notice and Terms of Use, effective on December 19, 2019.
President Trump has changed his posture on the coronavirus repeatedly. First he spent weeks dismissing the virus, then he briefly shifted into the persona of a “wartime president” who would defeat the virus, then reverted to his original stance after advisers persuaded him social-distancing measures would cripple the economy and his reelection. Now he is back, for the time being, to taking the virus seriously.
But since Trump never admits error, he has had to cover his reversals in a series of lies. In his press conference yesterday, Trump asserted that, when he had insisted the virus had been contained and would be almost harmless, he had merely been trying to give the country “hope.” Today, when CNN’s Wolf Blitzer asked about those statements, Vice-President Mike Pence said, “I don’t believe the president has ever belittled the threat of the coronavirus.”
The term “Orwellian” has been cheapened over the years, but this lie absolutely fits the tradition of “we have always been at war with Eastasia.” Starting in January, Trump was insisting that he had the coronavirus fully contained. “We have it very well under control. We have very little problem in this country at this moment — five. And those people are all recuperating successfully” (January 30). He repeatedly insisted the number of people infected would go down. “I think the numbers are going to get progressively better as we go along” (February 19). “We had 12, at one point. And now they’ve gotten very much better. Many of them are fully recovered” (February 23).
Trump likewise repeatedly portrayed the virus as mild. “Now, and this is just my hunch, and — but based on a lot of conversations with a lot of people that do this. Because a lot of people will have this, and it’s very mild. They’ll get better very rapidly. They don’t even see a doctor. They don’t even call a doctor. You never hear about those people.” (March 4) Trump has likened the coronavirus to the flu, questioning why the former required people to social distance while the latter did not:
So last year 37,000 Americans died from the common Flu. It averages between 27,000 and 70,000 per year. Nothing is shut down, life & the economy go on. At this moment there are 546 confirmed cases of CoronaVirus, with 22 deaths. Think about that!
He has been repeating that theme even as recently as one week ago: “We’ve never closed down the country for the flu. So you say to yourself, ‘What is this all about?’” (March 24)
There are many, many other examples. David Leonhardt collected most of them two weeks ago, but Trump just kept doing it. The thing is, there’s a pretty good chance Trump will start downplaying the virus again, when he grows impatient with waiting it out and decides to listen to Larry Kudlow again. And when the next turn happens, Pence will be there to shake his head vigorously and deny Trump ever took any position other than the current party line.
It’s going to be a long month
The death toll in New York continues to increase dramatically
Not a reassuring statement
Say what now?
Another major sporting event bites the dust
Coronavirus is hitting NYC cops hard
Doesn’t seem like the GREATEST idea
It’s not just ventilators
Demand for drugs given to patients on ventilators is outstripping supply, according to Vizient Inc., a pharmaceutical-purchasing group that works with more than half of U.S. hospitals and health systems. Hospital orders for sedatives, analgesics and neuromuscular blockers increased 58% overall in March compared with January, Vizient said. Those medicines are used to prevent movement, manage pain and soothe patients who can’t breathe without the assistance of a machine. …

“These drugs maximize the work the ventilator can do, so the patient can heal and recover,” said Dan Kistner, senior vice president of pharmacy solutions at Vizient. “If we don’t focus on the drugs that are critical to making these ventilators go, then having the ventilators doesn’t matter.”

“If you have a car, but no gas, you can’t get anywhere,” he said.
Americans appear to be getting the message
Already a subscriber?
Log in or link your magazine subscription"
