"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
Pelosi: 'That's an admission that perhaps the president and the majority leader cannot handle the job'
Speaker Nancy Pelosi dismissed as an ""excuse"" claims from Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell that impeachment proceedings distracted the president from appropriately responding to the coronavirus pandemic during its initial outbreak.
""We have a life-and-death situation in our country, and they should not try to hide behind an excuse for why they do not take action,"" the California Democrat said. ""That's an admission that perhaps the president and the majority leader cannot handle the job,"" she said.
House Democratic leaders have targeted 20 April as the earliest they are likely to call members back to Washington to continue legislating the government's response to the health crisis.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
Senate Republicans, who control that chamber's majority, have adopted a wait-and-see approach for calling senators back before considering new relief proposals.
House Democrats have promised to conduct aggressive oversight of the administration's response to the health crisis once the virus's impact abates. For now, Ms Pelosi is seeking to strike a more bipartisan tone to continue bipartisan, bicameral negotiations on the government's response.
""Let's put an after action review down the road,"" Ms Pelosi told CNN Wednesday.
But Republicans have already sought to direct some of the blame for the president's lagging coronavirus response towards Democrats, linking it to Democrats' impeachment case against him.
The impeachment trial ""diverted the attention of the government, because everything, every day was all about impeachment,"" McConnell told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt Tuesday.
Impeachment proceedings wrapped up when the Senate voted to acquit Trump on 5 February. Mr Trump announced restricted travel from China, where the virus originated, on 31 January, but the first death from Covid-19 in the western world wasn't announced until 14 February.
Mr Trump initially admitted at his daily coronavirus press briefing Tuesday that impeachment ""probably did"" distract him from responding to the coronavirus. But he quickly backtracked.
""I don't think I would have done any better had I not been impeached, OK?"" the president said.
No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
