"GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER. CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X
Trending:
Berkeley Farms, the Bay Area milk producer and dairy brand known to generations of regional families, is about to be no more.
Dean Foods, the Dallas-based parent company of Berkeley Farms, confirmed Wednesday it will close its Hayward facilities, most likely by the end of April, thus bringing an end to more than 100 years of Berkeley Farms’ presence in the Bay Area. Dean Foods said there are approximately 315 people who work at Berkeley Farms who will lose their jobs as a result of the closure.
The closure comes amid Dean selling most of its operations to Dairy Farmers of America, for $433 million, as part of Dean’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy process, which began in November 2019.
“This was an extremely tough decision for the Dean Foods family,” said a Dean spokesperson, in a statement given to this news organization. “Our intention was to sell the Berkeley Farms facility as an ongoing business, meaning operations would have continued; unfortunately, the lack of interested buyers has made the decision necessary.”
Dean Foods said Berkeley Farms’ non-union employees will be entitled to severance, but didn’t give any details about the terms of such packages. The company said it is negotiating with its union employees on severance package terms.
Dean Foods also said it will now look for a buyer for the Berkeley Farms real estate.
Despite the closure of Berkeley Farms’ Hayward operations, the Berkeley Farms name may still remain on grocery store shelves around the Bay Area.
Producers Dairy Foods, which is based in Fresno, has entered into an agreement to purchase Berkeley Farms’ trademark from Dean Food for $3,001,000. Marcus Magness, a lawyer representing Producers, said the company intends to still manufacture products under the Berkeley Farms name. However, officials with Producers didn’t return a request for comment about the timeline for any of its future plans with the Berkeley Farms brand.
Berkeley Farms Bay Area roots date back to 1910, when a local businessman, John Sabatte, set up the original business as the South Berkeley Creamery, in Berkeley. The company eventually changed its name to Berkeley Farms, and Sabette’s family continued to run the business until selling it to Dean Foods in 1998. That same years, That same year, Berkeley Farms relocated its operations to its current facilities in Hayward.
Related Articles


			Coronavirus: Tesla, Apple shares fall as dire warnings weigh on Wall Street		




			Coronavirus help: $349 billion in loans coming soon for small businesses		




			Xerox calls off its HP takeover attempt		




			Coronavirus: Stocks close out March with historical first-quarter losses		




			Retired doctors, nursing, med students: California wants you		

The company had one of the most-identifiable ad campaigns in the Bay Area, with the tagline, “Farms in Berkeley?” which was accompanied by a cow replying, “Moooo!”
Sabatte and his family members continued to run Berkeley Farms until selling the company to Dean Foods in 1998.

Get Morning Report and other email newsletters
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you accept our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy.
OK"
