"You are now logged in.
Forgot your password?
Create new account
Coronavirus
Nick Gillespie and John Osterhoudt  | 4.1.2020 1:35 PM
Matt Ridley is one of the best-selling—and best-regarded—science writers on the planet. He wrote recently that in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, ""We are about to find out how robust civilisation is"" and ""the hardships ahead will be like nothing we have ever known."" Given that Ridley's best-known book is called The Rational Optimist, this is bracing stuff.
Ridley's next book, How Innovation Works: And Why It Flourishes in Freedom, will be published in May. Nick Gillespie spoke with him from his home in northern England. They discussed why the coronavirus caught him by surprise, when he thinks the world economy will reopen, why Brexit is good for Europe, and whether he believes that sustained innovation and progress can take place in authoritarian countries such as China.
""I'm afraid it is necessary to be pretty draconian when you're in the middle of a pandemic,"" says Ridley, who nonetheless believes that limited government and individual liberty are essential bulwarks to creating a rich and prosperous society. ""If you want to preserve freedom…you need to unleash the freedom to innovate, to solve the problem in good times.""
Interview by Nick Gillespie; Edited by John Osterhoudt; Thumbnail by Lex Villena
Photo Credit: Ju Peng Xinhua News Agency/Newscom; Ju Peng Xinhua News Agency/Newscom.
NEXT: A Cruel and Irresponsible April Fools' Day Hoax
Nick Gillespie is an editor at large at Reason.
John Osterhoudt is a producer at Reason and a Poynter-Koch Media and Journalism fellow.
Show Comments (11)
Editor's Note: We invite comments and request that they be civil and on-topic. We do not moderate or assume any responsibility for comments, which are owned by the readers who post them. Comments do not represent the views of Reason.com or Reason Foundation. We reserve the right to delete any comment for any reason at any time. Report abuses.
Does he cover fictional hysteria because that’s what this KungFlu fear and nuking the US economy is founded on. Fiction that this disease requires any action beyond what we do for the seasonal Flu/Cold.
“I’m afraid it is necessary to be pretty draconian when you’re in the middle of a pandemic,”
Based on what studies or data?
Oh sure, you want proof? What kinda monster are you? Think of the children !!!!
Their really aren’t that many case studies that exist backing that claim up.  What’s happening now is completely unprecedented and I hate hate how people are nonchalantly acting like this is something we just do. It’s not and never has been.  The only time they can point to where something “like” this happened is the Spanish flu which was done on a local city by city level.
These same people who are loathe to approve new drugs to even dieing patients that haven’t been lab tested and gone through years of red tape and bureaucratic hoops have completely embraced a strategy that’s never been tried based on theoretical models that we won’t have a control for. It’s madness.
Or 1957, duh.
Um no. In fact
https://www.liebertpub.com/doi/pdfplus/10.1089/bsp.2009.0729
“Efforts to prevent morbidity and mortality associated with the pandemic focused on having supplies of vaccine. Measures were generally not taken to close schools, restrict travel, close borders, or recommend wearing masks. Quarantine was not considered to be an effective mitigation strategy and was ‘‘obviously useless because of the large number of travelers and the frequency of mild or inapparent cases.’’4(p36) Closing schools and limiting public gatherings were not recommended as strategies to mitigate the pandemic’s impact, except for administrative reasons due to high levels of absenteeism.”
Things were cancelled because people were too sick but how about we look at this:
Economic Impact “Despite the large numbers of cases, the 1957 outbreak did not appear to have a significant impact on the U.S. economy. For example, a Congressional Budget Office estimate found that a pandemic the scale of which occurred in 1957 would reduce real GDP by approximately 1% ‘‘but probably would not cause a recession and might not be distinguishable from the normal variation in economic activity.’’29(p2) As a comparison, industrial production in Canada was 1.2% below trend during the peak of the pandemic in October and at trend in November of 1957.30 According to the Canadian Department of Finance, ‘‘[o]verall, the picture that emerges from the 1957 and 1968 pandemics is of possible very small direct economic impacts and no indirect impacts.’’30(p16)
amazing that.
Pick one. I’m sure he can find one to back up his claim. At work to day I received a letter that states I am a necessary employee. So, I got that going for me.
I too am essential.  But I don’t know how much longer I’m going to employed because I doubt I’ll have any customers in business by the time this is over.
Ridley’s a decent writer.  You’ve sucked me in, Gillespie.  I’ll give it a listen while I wait for this stock to cool.
Please log in to post comments
Damon Root  | 4.1.2020 1:50 PM
Jonathan H. Adler  | 4.1.2020 1:04 PM
Josh Blackman  | 4.1.2020 12:50 PM
Scott Shackford  | 4.1.2020 12:10 PM
Charles Oliver and Peter Bagge  |  From the April 2020 issue
Joe Biden
So far, it's been silence from The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN, and others.
Robby Soave  | 3.30.2020 1:50 PM
Coronavirus
That's a huge concern as forecasters expect the U.S. unemployment rate in the months to come to surpass that seen during the depths of the Great Depression.
J.D. Tuccille  | 3.27.2020 11:10 AM
Coronavirus
Social distancing and lockdowns appear to be working to slow the coronavirus pandemic.
Ronald Bailey  | 3.31.2020 10:45 AM
Coronavirus
""You cannot just decide you want to sell groceries,"" said Barbara Ferrer, the director of L.A. County Public Health.
Billy Binion  | 3.31.2020 4:35 PM
Coronavirus
The agency concludes that the possible benefits outweigh the risks.
Ronald Bailey  | 3.30.2020 4:00 PM
© Reason Foundation | Privacy Policy | Terms Of Use"
