"Advertisement
Supported by
Right Now
General Motors said sales fell 7 percent in the first quarter while Fiat Chrysler reported a 10 percent drop.
As the coronavirus pandemic spread around the world in February and March, demand for flights quickly started to collapse. World governments enacted travel bans, borders closed, and travelers opted to stay at home in efforts to contain the outbreak. Those efforts have almost entirely halted air travel in the United States.
The number of people screened by the federal government at airport checkpoints fell dramatically each day in March when compared to the same day of the week a year earlier, ending the month at just 7 percent of last year’s volume, according to Transportation Security Administration data.
On March 1, the agency screened about 99 percent of the 2.3 million passengers, airline crew members and airport workers who filtered past its checkpoints on the same day last year. But by Tuesday, the end of the month, only about 146,000 people streamed past the checkpoints, or about 7 percent of the 2 million people screened last year.
Stocks on Wall Street fell sharply on Wednesday, following a slump in global markets, as investors face new projections of the potential scale and economic ramifications of the coronavirus pandemic.
The S&P 500 fell more than 4 percent, extending its losses from March, which was the worst month for stocks since 2008. Stocks fell more than 12 percent last month and are down more than 20 percent this year.
Though the panic-driven, stomach-churning market volatility of recent weeks had subsided in recent days, numerous signs point to dire prospects for the world economy as the pandemic continues its spread. President Trump said at a news conference on Tuesday that the United States would face a “very, very painful two weeks.” U.S. government scientists projected that the outbreak could kill up to 240,000 people in the country. And on Wednesday, the United Nations warned of “enhanced instability, enhanced unrest and enhanced conflict.”
And economic readings continue to worsen. On Wednesday, surveys of manufacturing and factory activity in the United States, Europe and Japan showed activity slowing to levels not seen in a decade or more. Investors will get more data on the job market in the United States later this week, with the government reporting weekly jobless claims on Thursday and the unemployment rate on Friday.
Analysts now expect average earnings for S&P 500 companies to fall by 10 percent this quarter, versus the same period last year. That would be the first double-digit percentage decline since 2009, according to FactSet.
The first quarter of this year saw the end of the record-breaking, 11-year bull market in U.S. stocks, a crash in oil prices and the seizing up of Wall Street’s more esoteric markets, among other twists and turns. An enormous fiscal and policy response at the end of March helped undo some of the worst damage. The S&P 500 recouped more than half its losses in the final week of the month after lawmakers passed a $2 trillion spending package, and the Federal Reserve said it would buy an unlimited amount of government-backed debt to keep markets functioning.
Calmer markets do not mean that the worst is over. As people stay home and factories shut down, millions of workers have lost their jobs. Economic data showing the scale of the damage has only just begun to roll in, and Wall Street analysts continue to downgrade expectations for the economy.
On Wednesday, stocks in London and Paris stocks were trading 2 to 4 percent lower, following similar drops in Asia.
Automakers reported a plunge in new-vehicle sales as fear of the coronavirus and stay-at-home orders kept consumers from dealerships, adding to the troubles of the country’s largest manufacturing sector.
General Motors said sales fell 7 percent in the first quarter and Fiat Chrysler said first-quarter sales fell 10 percent. Both companies said a significant decline in March offset strong sales in January and February.
Of the companies that report sales on a monthly basis, Hyundai reported a 42 percent drop in March, and Mercedes-Benz had a 50 percent decline. Other automakers will report monthly and quarterly totals later on Wednesday.
Industry forecasters expect to produce a total for March after all automakers have reported. ALG, a company that tracks trends in auto sales, estimated that industrywide March sales fell 37 percent from a year ago.
The drop in sales is the second big blow to automakers. Most of the industry has shut down factories across North America to prevent the spread of the virus among workers.
Many car dealers had hoped to continue selling cars at the beginning of March, but customer traffic quickly dwindled as it became clear that the virus was spreading rapidly.
“The market right now is really shellshocked,” said Brian Benstock, general manager of Paragon Honda in Queens. He said his service department is “on limp mode” and his sales area is dark.
Fears are growing that the downturn gripping the global economy could be far more punishing and long lasting than initially feared — potentially enduring into next year and even beyond.
The pandemic is above all a public health emergency. So long as human interaction remains dangerous, business cannot responsibly return to normal. And what was normal before may not be anymore. People may be less inclined to jam into crowded restaurants and concert halls even after the virus is contained.
The abrupt halt of commercial activity threatens to impose economic pain so profound and enduring in every region of the world at once that recovery could take years. The losses to companies, many already saturated with debt, risk setting off a financial crisis of cataclysmic proportions.
“I feel like the 2008 financial crisis was just a dry run for this,” said Kenneth S. Rogoff, a Harvard economist and co-author of a history of financial crises, “This Time Is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly.”
“This is already shaping up as the deepest dive on record for the global economy for over 100 years,” he said. “Everything depends on how long it lasts, but if this goes on for a long time, it’s certainly going to be the mother of all financial crises.”
The Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve are racing to finalize the development of a Main Street lending program aimed at helping mid-market companies along with a new program to buttress states and municipalities suffering financially from the coronavirus pandemic.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said on CNBC on Wednesday that the programs were part of the Trump administration’s ongoing efforts to stimulate an economy that is facing a deep recession. Mr. Mnuchin said he was also talking with members of Congress about legislation that would boost investment in the nation’s infrastructure and that he was prepared to ask for more money to support small business loans.
“Jay Powell and I are working round-the-clock at providing liquidity into the economy,” Mr. Mnuchin said.
Mr. Mnuchin would not reveal the timing of the new Fed programs, but said they would be coming shortly.
“We want to get up and running so that they’re available to American business and American workers quickly,” he said.
Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Powell have emerged as the two most powerful players in the economic response to the coronavirus, turning what was a collegial friendship into a vital partnership.
Start-ups have always been risky, designed to grow fast or die, but the coronavirus pandemic is turbocharging Silicon Valley’s natural selection and causing a shake-up so sudden it has defied comparison.
In just a few weeks, more than 50 start-ups have cut or furloughed roughly 6,000 employees, according to a tally by The New York Times. Plans for initial public offerings are delayed. And funding is drying up for many young tech companies.
Start-ups in some areas — telemedicine, food delivery, online learning, remote work, gaming — are thriving amid the quarantines.
But at ClassPass, which offers a membership program for fitness classes, more than 95 percent of its revenue evaporated in just 10 days as studios and gyms around the world shut down.
The fallout is hitting prominent start-ups as well. Airbnb, the home rental start-up valued at $31 billion, has stopped hiring and has suspended $800 million of marketing. Bird, an electric scooter start-up, laid off 30 percent of its staff last week, while Everlane, an apparel company, cut or furloughed hundreds of workers.
There were signs that the boom times were shaky even before the coronavirus brought wide swaths of the U.S. economy to a halt. But the pain is now deeper and most likely just beginning, especially as investors, already bruised by a string of disappointing initial public offerings last year, become even more cautious.
The stakes are high, and so are the prices. Wholesale costs for N95 respirators, a crucial type of mask for protecting medical workers, have quintupled. Trans-Pacific airfreight charges have tripled.
Global desperation to protect front-line medical workers battling the coronavirus epidemic has spurred a global scramble for masks and other protective gear.
The White House said over the weekend that it had organized 22 flights to airlift personal protection equipment. The aim is to resupply hospitals that are within 72 hours of running out of protection equipment, said Gregory Forrester, the chief executive of National Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster.
“If any one of these planes don’t take off,” he said, “that’s going to be an issue.”
China has become a major part of the solution. Already a giant in mask manufacturing, it has ramped up production to nearly 12 times its earlier level. The huge mobilization effort has involved redesigning freight train routes and sending large numbers of workers across the country in sealed buses.
The Chinese government has encouraged global deals, but buying and selling masks is no easy feat. Traders, some just weeks into their new but unstable careers, have to navigate confusion, fraud attempts, byzantine customs laws and other barriers.
Whiting Petroleum, an oil company focused on shale projects in North Dakota and Colorado, said it was filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, citing “the severe downturn in oil and gas prices driven by uncertainty around the duration of the Saudi/Russia oil price war and the Covid-19 pandemic.” Whiting, which has roughly $1 billion of debt coming due over the next year, said it had reached an agreement in principle with some creditors on a comprehensive restructuring.
Investors pulled more than $83 billion out of equity and debt investments in emerging markets, new data from the Institute of International Finance shows. “This record-breaking outflow episode is significantly larger than the one seen during the global financial crisis,” economists at IIF wrote in a note on Wednesday.
Banks in Britain, including Barclays, HSBC and RBS, said they would not pay dividends or carry out share buybacks this year. The supervisory arm of the Bank of England, which had requested the move, also encouraged the banks not to award cash bonuses to senior staff members this year. The European Central Bank has issued a similar request to eurozone banks.
Reporting was contributed by Erin Griffith, Alan Rappeport, Neal E. Boudette, Ben Dooley, Peter S. Goodman, Niraj Chokshi, Li Yuan, Keith Bradsher, Noam Scheiber, Amie Tsang, Jason Karaian, Carlos Tejada, Stanley Reed, Mohammed Hadi, Kevin Granville and Daniel Victor.
Updated March 24, 2020
It seems to spread very easily from person to person, especially in homes, hospitals and other confined spaces. The pathogen can be carried on tiny respiratory droplets that fall as they are coughed or sneezed out. It may also be transmitted when we touch a contaminated surface and then touch our face.
No. The first testing in humans of an experimental vaccine began in mid-March. Such rapid development of a potential vaccine is unprecedented, but even if it is proved safe and effective, it probably will not be available for 12 to18 months.
Unlike the flu, there is no known treatment or vaccine, and little is known about this particular virus so far. It seems to be more lethal than the flu, but the numbers are still uncertain. And it hits the elderly and those with underlying conditions — not just those with respiratory diseases — particularly hard.
If you’ve been exposed to the coronavirus or think you have, and have a fever or symptoms like a cough or difficulty breathing, call a doctor. They should give you advice on whether you should be tested, how to get tested, and how to seek medical treatment without potentially infecting or exposing others.
If you’re sick and you think you’ve been exposed to the new coronavirus, the C.D.C. recommends that you call your healthcare provider and explain your symptoms and fears. They will decide if you need to be tested. Keep in mind that there’s a chance — because of a lack of testing kits or because you’re asymptomatic, for instance — you won’t be able to get tested.
If the family member doesn’t need hospitalization and can be cared for at home, you should help him or her with basic needs and monitor the symptoms, while also keeping as much distance as possible, according to guidelines issued by the C.D.C. If there’s space, the sick family member should stay in a separate room and use a separate bathroom. If masks are available, both the sick person and the caregiver should wear them when the caregiver enters the room. Make sure not to share any dishes or other household items and to regularly clean surfaces like counters, doorknobs, toilets and tables. Don’t forget to wash your hands frequently.
Experts are divided on how much protection a regular surgical mask, or even a scarf, can provide for people who aren’t yet sick. The W.H.O. and C.D.C. say that unless you’re already sick, or caring for someone who is, wearing a face mask isn’t necessary.  And stockpiling high-grade N95 masks will make it harder for nurses and other workers to access the resources they need. But researchers are also finding that there are more cases of asymptomatic transmission than were known early on in the pandemic. And a few experts say that masks could offer some protection in crowded places where it is not possible to stay 6 feet away from other people. Masks don’t replace hand-washing and social distancing.
Plan two weeks of meals if possible. But people should not hoard food or supplies. Despite the empty shelves, the supply chain remains strong. And remember to wipe the handle of the grocery cart with a disinfecting wipe and wash your hands as soon as you get home.
Yes, but make sure you keep six feet of distance between you and people who don’t live in your home. Even if you just hang out in a park, rather than go for a jog or a walk, getting some fresh air, and hopefully sunshine, is a good idea.
That’s not a good idea. Even if you’re retired, having a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds so that your money keeps up with inflation, or even grows, makes sense. But retirees may want to think about having enough cash set aside for a year’s worth of living expenses and big payments needed over the next five years.
Watching your balance go up and down can be scary. You may be wondering if you should decrease your contributions — don’t! If your employer matches any part of your contributions, make sure you’re at least saving as much as you can to get that “free money.”
Advertisement"
