"Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Wolf (D) will reportedly issue a stay-an-home order for the entire state as the total number of confirmed coronavirus cases there jumps to more than 5,800.
A previous stay-at-home order for 33 counties will be broadened to cover the state's 12.8 million people, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reported, citing three sources with knowledge of Wolf’s plans.
Pennsylvania saw its largest single-day increase of cases Tuesday, with 756 people testing positive for COVID-19. Cases of the virus have been confirmed in 60 of 67 counties and at least 63 people have died after contracting it. As of Wednesday, Pennsylvania officials put the total confirmed cases in the state at 5,805.
Wolf had started by issuing stay-at-home orders to counties with the greatest outbreaks, then broadened the list to 33 counties, effective Tuesday evening.
Residents are limited to leaving their homes for tasks “essential to maintain health and safety” for themselves or family members, including taking care of pets, and obtaining medical supplies or visiting health care professionals. Wolf has thus far relied on voluntary compliance rather than actively enforcing the order.
“At this time, law enforcement will be focused on ensuring that residents are aware of the order and informing the public of social distancing practices rather than enforcement,” the governor’s office said in a statement Tuesday. “To report a noncompliant business, contact your local law enforcement agency’s non-emergency number or the nearest Pennsylvania State Police station.”
Wolf, like numerous other governors and jurisdictions, has shut down most businesses in the state, ordering that only “life-sustaining” businesses remain open.
The Hill has reached out to Wolf’s office for confirmation.
View the discussion thread.
The Hill 1625 K Street, NW Suite 900 Washington DC 20006 | 202-628-8500 tel | 202-628-8503 fax
The contents of this site are ©2020 Capitol Hill Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of News Communications, Inc."
