"Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
News
By Jackie Salo
Submit
April 1, 2020 | 1:43pm				| Updated April 1, 2020 | 1:50pm
Sign up for our special edition newsletter to get a daily update on the coronavirus pandemic.
Coronavirus-infected kids who show no symptoms of being ill are endangering pubic health by secretly spreading the disease, according to a troubling new study.
The research, which was published Wednesday in the journal The Lancet Infectious Diseases, looked at 36 cases of kids under the age of 16 who tested positive for COVID-19 at hospitals in the eastern Chinese province of Zhejiang.
Of the cases, there were 28% without any symptoms while another 19% only showed mild upper respiratory issues, researchers said.
“Although fever, dry cough, and mild pneumonia are common manifestations, nearly half of patients have neither obvious symptoms nor abnormal radiological findings,” researchers wrote in the paper.
Researchers said the findings suggest that children could be spreading the virus despite not showing any symptoms.
“The large proportion of asymptomatic children indicates the difficulty in identifying pediatric patients who do not have clear epidemiological information, leading to a dangerous situation in community-acquired infections,” researchers said.
Dr. Tom Frieden, who is ex-director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said earlier this month that children without any symptoms could make the pandemic more difficult to contain.
“The fact that children may get infected but not show symptoms poses a risk to pediatricians,” Frieden said.
Read Next
Coronavirus is most dangerous for people with these chroni...
Read Next
Coronavirus is most dangerous for people with these chroni...
Share Selection
Stay informed with our Coronavirus Daily Update newsletter.
Read Latest Updates
This story has been shared 165,335 times.
165,335
This story has been shared 136,112 times.
136,112
This story has been shared 133,810 times.
133,810
This story has been shared 82,697 times.
82,697
© 2020 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Terms of Use
Privacy Notice
Your Ad Choices
Sitemap
California Privacy Rights

Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories?
Not Now			

				Yes Please"
