"Log in using your social network account
Log in directly with The Independent
Want an ad-free experience?Subscribe to Independent Premium.
Hi {{fullName}}
The governor of Florida has issued a statewide stay-at-home order to remain in effect for at least 30 days beginning Thursday, after facing extensive criticism over a seemingly slow response to the novel coronavirus pandemic.
Governor Ron DeSantis (R-Fla) announced the temporary orders while under pressure from local and federal health officials to step up partial measures the state was taking to slow the spread of Covid-19 transmissions.
Spring breakers stirred controversy in recent weeks as they partied on Florida's coastline, ignoring social distancing and self-isolation guidelines as the state confirmed more than 5,200 cases of the coronavirus.
Sharing the full story, not just the headlines
A fever-tracking map featuring real-time data reported from across the country began to suggest an apparent outbreak of illnesses in the state after the spring break festivities, as The Independent previously reported.
This is a breaking news story. More follows...

No hype, just the advice and analysis you need
Register with your social account or click here to log in
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
You can find our Community Guidelines in full here.
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Create a commenting name to join the debate
Enter your email to follow new comments on this article.
Are you sure you want to submit this vote?
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Want to discuss real-world problems, be involved in the most engaging discussions and hear from the journalists? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Are you sure you want to mark this comment as inappropriate?
Are you sure you want to delete this comment?
Independent Premium Comments can be posted by members of our membership scheme, Independent Premium.
      It allows our most engaged readers to debate the big issues, share their own experiences, discuss
      real-world solutions, and more. Our journalists will try to respond by joining the threads when
      they can to create a true meeting of independent Premium. The most insightful comments on all subjects
      will be published daily in dedicated articles. You can also choose to be emailed when someone replies
      to your comment.
The existing Open Comments threads will continue to exist for those who do not subscribe to
      Independent Premium. Due to the sheer scale of this comment community, we are not able to give each post
      the same level of attention, but we have preserved this area in the interests of open debate. Please
      continue to respect all commenters and create constructive debates.
Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Find your bookmarks in your Independent Premium section, under my profile"
